We jump into the New Year with heightened ambition and eager anticipation. However, our moods deepen when the Moon sinks into watery Cancer at 3:10 am EST. Lunar oppositions to austere Saturn and romantic Venus increase our relationship awareness, but doesn't necessarily give us the tools we need to fix what's wrong. The shy Cancer Full Moon at 9:24 pm is another sign that we might not be able to express our emotions, even though we can feel them. It's a New Year and we're full of renewed ambition and excitement about matters of love and romance. The Cancer Moon's opposition to serious Saturn and sexy Venus make us want to focus on our romantic relationship, even though we'll have to take time to figure out smart solutions to our lingering concerns. We may not be able to fully communicate the depth of our emotions, but they are definitely fueling our every thought and feeling right now. Although we start the day with high hopes, we may need to adjust our unrealistic expectations as we go. The nurturing Cancer Moon forms a Grand Water  Trine with Neptune, Mars and Jupiter, enabling us to be comfortable with our feelings. However, we are agitated as the Moon opposes suspicious Pluto and squares rebellious Uranus. Thankfully, we won't likely be pulled too far off center with four planets establishing roots in hardworking Capricorn. Being realistic about love is crucial today. The caring Cancer Moon forms a Grand Water Trine with Neptune, Mars and Jupiter, allowing us to settle into our most passionate emotions. We may even feel too intense as the Moon opposes paranoid Pluto and squares unpredictable Uranus right now. Luckily, conscientious Capricorn helps to settle four planets, assisting us in our attempts to stay grounded despite our passionate moods. Although it's apparent that the energy of the new year is somehow different, our enthusiasm is on the rise and we are ready for action. The Moon's shift into animated Leo at 2:22 am EST grants us permission to temporarily set aside our feelings and swing into motion. We know that we must take our responsibilities seriously, even if it means the holiday season is over. However, a sweet Venus-Neptune sextile reminds us that joy doesn't need to fade. We're ready to take the bull by the horns when it comes to matters of the heart today. The Moon is moving into lively Leo, inspiring us to move past our fears and take action within a special romantic connection that we intuitively know will garner passionate results. We are aware that if we want to have a more successful year than last year, we mustn't take love for granted. An affectionate Venus-Neptune trine is also present, showing us that getting serious about love still means we can experience lots of joy right now. Excitement fuels actions and we're eager to shift into gear, even if there are no plans yet. Although four planets in calculating Capricorn encourage us to stay on course, spontaneity will likely suppress any common sense today. The proud Leo Moon infuses us with sufficient courage to act on our convictions. Whatever happens, we won't be sidelined as the Moon also creates a Grand Fire Trine with loquacious Mercury and irrepressible Uranus. Despite the presence of four planets in controlling Capricorn attempting to get us to hang on to the status quo in our love lives, we're more interested in sexy spontaneity today. The lively Leo Moon gives us the boost of confidence we need to take action when it counts. The Moon's Grand Fire Trine with chatty Mercury and unpredictable Uranus won't be able to match our romantic convictions right now. We're the boss when it comes to matters of the heart. The holiday season fades further into the past once the Moon shifts into practical Virgo at 3:11 am EST. Although it's the end of the workweek for most, it feels as if we are just getting started. We eagerly make lists and cross off the items one at a time, striving to bring efficiency to everything we do. Nevertheless, we grow less interested in the details and more interested in our dreams as the Moon moves to oppose imaginative Neptune. Now that the Moon moves into pragmatic Virgo today, we're seeing the holidays in our rear view mirror, making us feel ready to embrace practical realities of our love lives. We still don't feel very efficient in our actions, and once the Moon shifts to oppose nebulous Neptune, we'll be able to find answers to any romantic conundrums that we didn't know how to deal with last year. This is the time for commonsense action in matters of the heart! The speed of change can be overwhelming, especially when the intensity is dialed all the way up to max. Quicksilver Mercury trines electric Uranus, turning on the lights of awareness and illuminating new ways to perceive reality. Simultaneously, energetic Mars hooks up with excessive Jupiter in passionate Scorpio, amplifying our feelings. Nevertheless, it's difficult to maintain a rational perspective, even with help from the analytical Virgo Moon. Our passionate perceptions are amped to the nth degree as mutable Mercury trines capricious Uranus in sexy Scorpio today. Even the presence of the stable Virgo Moon won't be enough to help ground our see-sawing emotions. Change is in the air in matters of the heart and even though it's hard to keep up with them, we lean in because the chaos can be exhilarating right now. There is a lot of strange energy seeping into our lives today as the Moon forms a series of complicated aspects throughout the day. Nevertheless, we strive to balance the complex nonphysical energy with the simple facts of our mundane reality once the Moon shifts into harmonizing Libra at 7:14 am EST. A midday lunar square to taskmaster Saturn requires us to perform a reality check before dispersing our energy again and dissolving it into the ethers. We must prepare for some unusual energy our love lives as the Moon creates a collection of complex aspects today. A lunar square to serious Saturn later in the day reminds us to tone down our high sexpectations in a love relationship. We must stay grounded and not waste our limited emotional and physical energy on something that isn't good for us. A romantic reality check would be a good thing right now. We might not trust what we learn today since good news seems out of place these days. Nevertheless, romantic Venus aligns with the radiant Sun in earthy Capricorn to sweeten our lives. A supportive sextile from buoyant Jupiter runs this good news up the flagpole for all to see. Additionally, combative Mars makes a sextile with ruthless Pluto, empowering us to fight to the bitter end in the name of truth, even if we're unsure of achieving victory. If something quite wonderful should happen in our love lives today, we may respond with an air of incredulity, as if it seems wrong somehow. Luckily, passionate Venus aligns with the brilliant Sun and carnal Capricorn, showing us the value of embracing our ecstatic potential in matters of the heart. We're ready to fight for love and mighty Mars creating a sextile with powerful Pluto reminds us that we have the power to realize our romantic dreams if we pursue our truth. A unique sweet-and-sour sauce flavors today's cosmic stew with contradiction. A super-conjunction of the Sun, Venus and Pluto in ambitious Capricorn illuminates our lives with pleasure while simultaneously raising darker issues. Fortunately, cooperative sextiles to expressive Mars empower us to talk about difficult subjects in a constructive manner. The Moon's shift into passionate Scorpio at 3:05 pm EST makes us feel the intensity even more. Love can be exciting when we face strange contradictions today. A powerful conjunction of the Sun, Venus and Pluto in courageous Capricorn shows us the value of facing our shadow to learn what makes us tick in matters of the heart. We feel passionate intensity about someone special as the Moon enters sexy Scorpio, reminding us what makes our hearts skip a beat right now. The cosmic plot veers off course today as complicated aspects open portals to other levels of reality. Romantic relationships are entangled with unexpressed assumptions and expectations. Financial pressures highlight uncomfortable dynamics that must be addressed. Although we might find ourselves entrenched in a discussion about a difficult topic, the transformational Scorpio Moon requires us to stick with it until the energy feels resolved. Romantic reality gets walloped with cosmic confusion today as complicated aspects entangle us, messing up the romantic flow in our love lives. Unspoken words lead to unfulfilled expectations, making for one relationship snafu after another. Luckily, we have a celestial superhero in the Scorpio Moon in our corner getting ready to dose us with determination and drive, helping us stick with it until this weird energy subsides. Everyone seems quite serious today, and we're eager to join them if it means we can accomplish our goals. Cerebral Mercury is somber as it enters ambitious Capricorn where it joins Saturn, Pluto, the Sun and Venus. We trade blue sky for maps to guide us and supplies to sustain us while the reality of Capricorn is made apparent. Meanwhile, the passionate Scorpio Moon conjuncts philosophical Jupiter and assertive Mars, giving direction to our ideas. Mental Mercury is quite serious as it arrives in determined Capricorn, joining Saturn, Pluto, Venus and the brilliant Sun for a cosmic romp today. We no longer want to view our love lives with rose-colored glasses. We are prepared to work for our most passionate goals and we'll look for any commonsense help that can help us make it happen. We're set on building a better tomorrow with a love interest and we no longer feel lost about our romantic direction right now.  We're bearing the weight of five planets in authoritative Capricorn and we don't necessarily like being told what to do. We receive a short-lived reprieve when the Moon enters outspoken Sagittarius at 2:04 am EST. Our over-confidence tempts us to ignore the rules without fear of karmic reprisal. Nevertheless, the cavalier Moon can't match the power of the Capricorn cluster, especially with logical Mercury meeting up with shrewd Saturn late tonight. Five pushy planets in conclusive Capricorn are trying to tell us what to do in our love lives today, but we're not too keen to listen. Once the Moon enters candid Sagittarius, we'll be able to trust our own romantic instincts. In matters of the heart, as long as we avoid making assumptions and becoming overconfident, circumstances will likely go our way right now.  We might believe that rules are meant to be broken today, but the outcome of rebellious behavior won't be as sweet as we expect. Our desires push up against traditional norms as attractive Venus dynamically squares unconventional Uranus. We are not interested in the same old things; we want new and different experiences. Meanwhile, an exciting Mercury-Jupiter connection increases the optimism reflected by the adventurous Sagittarius Moon. Our romantic rebelliousness may seem like a good idea when we're in the moment today, but our impulsive actions will only serve to complicate matters of the heart at this time. Sweet Venus squares unpredictable Uranus, putting our passionate inclinations face-to-face with our desire to keep things stable right now. At the same time, an adventurous Mercury-Jupiter alignment keeps us optimistic about romance thanks to the intrepid Sagittarius Moon. Yesterday's temptations seem even more enticing today. We may be bored with the status quo and inspired to shake things up just for the sheer excitement of it all. But creating chaos won't work in our favor while the willful Sun in conservative Capricorn tensely squares uncontainable Uranus. Fortunately, we can come to our senses before doing something we regret when the Moon enters pragmatic Capricorn at 2:42 pm EST and bumps into stern Saturn. Our mood is one of shock and awe as we consider doing something drastic to shake up our love lives today. However, with the stubborn Sun in careful Capricorn squaring unpredictable Uranus, intentionally creating chaos with our sweethearts won't work to our advantage at this time. Luckily, the Moon's foray into commonsense Capricorn nudges up next to steely Saturn, helping us avoid complications in matters of the heart right now. We can't escape the laws of the land or our moral responsibilities while the judicious Capricorn Moon inches toward tomorrow's New Moon. However, we can convince ourselves of nearly anything as this day of reckoning is muddied by an unrealistic connection between pleasure-seeking Venus and fantasy-prone Neptune. Fortunately, expansive Jupiter forms a supportive sextile with undercover Pluto, bringing previously hidden facts into the light of day. We must face our romantic karma while the calculating Capricorn Moon tiptoes toward tomorrow's New Moon. A fantasy-filled connection between sensual Venus and nebulous Neptune makes us justify our romantic choices. Luckily, gigantic Jupiter's sextile with private Pluto helps us stay tethered to the truth in our love lives today. We're confronted by reality today as circumstances require us to pay attention to the truth. What goes around comes around, and the karmic Capricorn New Moon at 9:17 pm EST is a clear turning point in a cloudy sea of confusion. There's little wiggle room to tell stories or slip into denial with six planets in what-you-see-is-what-you-get Capricorn. Our feet have landed back on Earth; we need to take our bearings and set a course for the weeks ahead. We're not going to waste energy reveling in reverie when the reality of our love lives is so important to pay attention to today. We're eager to keep our romantic karma clear now that the fateful Capricorn Moon clarifies our minds and hearts. There will only be room for the whole truth and nothing but the truth right now. Six planets circle conclusive Capricorn, reminding us to stay grounded, especially if we want to make passionate plans in the near future.  We become more attuned to the future than the past once the Moon shifts from traditional Capricorn to techno-friendly Aquarius at 3:31 am EST, followed by sweet Venus later this evening. But we are more intrigued now by science fiction or fantasy than by brilliant feats of advanced engineering while the Sun forms an anxious aspect with imaginative Neptune. Intellectual or physical sparks may fly as red-hot Mars misaligns with erratic Uranus. As we ponder our passionate fates, we get a sparkle in our eyes as we think about the future rather than allowing ourselves to be sentimental for the past. The Moon transitions from conventional Capricorn to tech-y Aquarius, trailed by sexy Venus today, giving us visions of love for distant tomorrows. We reflect forward on an emotional level, yet our intellectual perspectives endure while mental Mars misaligns with unpredictable Uranus right now, sending shivers down our spines. It seems easier to navigate our way through complicated relationship dynamics when feelings are subdued by logic. Fortunately, the Aquarius Moon and Venus reflect a higher frequency of energy, moving our center of consciousness from our hearts into our heads. Nevertheless, it's not easy to walk our talk while cantankerous Mercury is agitating combative Mars. Thankfully, we can remain emotionally detached while still being fully engaged in our lives. It may be a bit easier to tend to challenging matters of the heart if we lean on logic more than emotions today. The brilliant Aquarius Moon and voluptuous Venus team up to assist us in dealing with romantic confusion by helping us focus on the pragmatic side of relationships. Mighty Mercury flips off mad Mars, however, making it tricky to stay on the straight and narrow path. Luckily, our efforts to remain connected to love won't be compromised just because we yearn for a commonsense solution to passionate issues. Life seems unstable these days, but the uncertainties will soon settle down. Our dreams are already amplified by a magical Venus-Jupiter alignment when the Moon enters imaginative Pisces at 3:26 pm EST. Our thoughts are not as rational as they appear while ambiguous Neptune distracts logical Mercury. But we are anticipating change as the Sun completes its business in structured Capricorn, prior to shifting into know-it-all Aquarius at 10:08 pm. Our crazy little romantic circumstances will soon settle down, so let's not panic. In fact, we can already feel our most fervent fantasies gaining steam in just the right way as a voluptuous Venus-Jupiter alignment amps up the Moon as it enters poetic Pisces today. We must still be careful of niggling nebulous energy as flaky Neptune messes with mindful Mercury. A change is going to come in our love lives as we watch the brilliant Sun switch out from cut-and-dry Capricorn to ingenious Aquarius.    The weirdness is not ready to hand the reins back to normalcy just yet. We are likely to involve others in our radical activities now as the willful Sun joins friendly Venus in freethinking Aquarius. Nevertheless, the intellect does not get to reign supreme because the compassionate Pisces Moon keeps us connected to our emotions. We are traveling through a fated moment, making it very important to maintain our clarity. Excellence is a practice. The stubborn Sun unites with attractive Venus in radical Aquarius today, giving us permission to continue to ride a wild wave in our love lives. Romantic circumstances may have been quite unusual lately, but this feels good to us at this time. The passionate Pisces Moon keeps us tethered closely to our intensely romantic emotions right now, yet we know that to stay clear in our intentions is vital to keep matters of the heart healthy. We are working our way back into the real world, but we're not in too much of a hurry to get there today. The dreamy Pisces Moon invites us to while away the time in contemplation, meditation or fantasy. Nevertheless, we are coaxed into action when the moody Moon trines impatient Mars. Meanwhile, the progressive Aquarius Sun forms a creative alignment with moralistic Jupiter in shrewd Scorpio, encouraging us to put our high ideals to practical use. Let us take a cue from the thoughtful and contemplative Pisces Moon today and let us ponder our passionate relationships right now. We may also be spurred on to act while a lunar trine with anxious Mars inspires us to act. A creative alignment between the brilliant Aquarius Sun with gigantic Jupiter in savvy Scorpio gives us the nudge we need to be practical even though we're making passionate plans. Even in matters of love, a bit of commonsense is never a bad thing. The luxury of humming dreamy tunes comes to a crashing crescendo when the Moon blasts into headstrong Aries at 1:26 am EST. It's time to pay the piper if we drifted too far off course. The Moon's square to karmic Saturn is a harsh reminder that we get what we deserve. Thankfully, Luna also forms supportive sextiles to the willful Sun and resourceful Venus, paving a path through the rugged landscape that makes it easier for us to find our way home. When it comes to matters of the heart, today is the day we face the music. We've been ignoring certain responsibilities lately, but we cannot ignore the fact that it's time to do the right thing. The stubborn Aries Moon's square with fateful Saturn reminds us that our romantic needs to be looked after with care. Luckily, the Moon's supportive sextiles to the stubborn Sun and reliable Venus helps us get through challenging relationship issues, clearing the way to enjoy passion and joy with our sweethearts right now. Although our thoughts are growing more intense as mental Mercury moves to join potent Pluto tomorrow, we try not to lose our creative edge. The enterprising Aries Moon forms magical connections with four planets, inspiring us to transform our visions into tangible reality. Nevertheless, it's tempting to jump into the middle of someone's emotional drama or manifest one of our own when the Moon stresses Mercury, Pluto and irrepressible Uranus. Mental musings start to intensify as brainy Mercury connects with powerful Pluto tomorrow, causing us to attempt to infuse our romantic reverie with creativity today. The ardent Aries Moon creates lovely links with a tetrad of planets, giving us the cosmically empowered wherewithal to transform passionate fantasies into something more tangible in our love lives. However, we must watch out for drama in our relationships while the Moon messes with passionate Pluto, unstable Uranus and mental Mercury right now. The Moon's shift into earthy Taurus at 8:39 am EST reminds us that we can't ignore the simple practicalities of life. But the pressing needs of reality narrow our perspectives as we place too much emphasis on one particular thing. An unresolved issue can assume cosmic proportions, making it difficult to let it go while rational Mercury hooks up with obsessive Pluto in calculating Capricorn. A Sun-Moon square indicates resolution could be delayed. It's time for us to pay attention to the oft-forgotten details of our busy lives. We may obsess over a romantic relationship matter so much that nothing else seems to matter at this time. Such a compulsive mood may well be a result of mental Mercury's tryst with possessed Pluto in cunning Capricorn. We'll have to be patient as our passionate plans slowly unfold, because a Sun-Moon square suggests that it will take some time and effort to find a romantic resolution right now. Exquisitely complicated fantasies distract us from our worldly responsibilities today. Although the pragmatic Taurus Moon continues to anchor our feet to the ground and places our focus on the most immediate tasks, we are simultaneously fascinated with the influence of more subtle forces. A supernatural alignment between insightful Mercury, energetic Mars and metaphysical Neptune opens a portal to a parallel universe and invites magic into our lives. We are absolutely enamored with our romantic fantasies at this moment, making it difficult or next to impossible to focus on the real world today. The commonsense Taurus Moon gives us it's best college try to help us stay grounded, however cosmic forces conspire to keep us intoxicated by the promise of passionate love. A magical alignment between mental Mercury, lively Mars and nebulous Neptune brings us closer to understanding the mystery of love right now. We have been transported from Fantasy Land into Tomorrow Land, and we aim into the future while Mars journeys through extroverted Sagittarius for the next seven weeks. We may be bored and eager to escape our current situation. The Moon's shift into restless Gemini at 12:39 pm EST adds to our displeasure with the here and now. Although we can go anywhere in our minds, lunar aspects to stabilizing Saturn and the Sun anchor us in the present moment. Mars moves through gregarious Sagittarius today, helping us envision a way to transform our romantic fantasies into reality. The Moon's arrival in antsy Gemini further focuses us on our passionate plans for tomorrow. Even though our romantic reverie is intense, lunar aspects to serious Saturn and the Sun remind us to keep one foot in the present moment, even if the thought of our fervent future makes our hearts skip a beat right now.  Anything can happen now that unpredictable Uranus is in the cosmic crosshairs. A pipeline is flowing with ingenious ideas from the Land of Brilliant Thoughts as intelligent Mercury squares Uranus. But the fickle Gemini Moon makes it tough to hold onto any single concept long enough to turn it into something tangible. Meanwhile, creative Venus and Mars also connect with Uranus, encouraging us to believe that a significant breakthrough is imminent. What you want out of love and what you're getting may be two vastly different things right now, but you're determined to balance things out as best as you can at this moment. You're eager to make progress with someone special while urgent Uranus squares mental Mercury in climbing Capricorn today. However, you're also eager to pay attention to personal matters that have nothing to do with romance. You may be able to find a solution that fixes most aspects of your chaotic world, but coping with conflict in your love relationship will need extra attention right now. Love may be in the air as romantic Venus forms a magical aspect to directive Mars. Although Venus and Mars are cosmic sweethearts, they work together to bring creativity into our lives now. It's not enough to manage the logistics of the day; we are driven to add meaning and beauty through the visionary process of innovation. But we can be too patient for our own good once the Moon swims into the emotional waters of reflective Cancer at 1:57 pm EST. Romance seems to be the theme of the day as voluptuous Venus forms an ethereal aspect to mighty Mars today. We are feeling equally innovative and visionary regarding the future of our love lives at this moment. However, once the Moon dives into contemplative Cancer this afternoon, we may feel a bit reserved about matters of the heart, but this may also inspire us to shake things up in a positive way right now. We may shift our focus from competition to cooperation while the community-minded Aquarius Sun forms a creative quintile with forward-thinking Uranus today. Our thinking process supports this egalitarian approach now that mental Mercury is flying through Aquarius. Meanwhile, the Moon shifts from individualistic Leo into service-oriented Virgo at 2:12 pm EST, confirming the emphasis on the group process rather than on any single point of view. The winds of change may be felt strongly today as the cosmos urges us to consider relationship solutions that benefit both parties. If we speak with an open heart and listen with an open mind, we might see that finding common ground with our loved ones was easier than we initially thought it would be. Achieving balance now opens the door for future conversations that deepen our bonds in ways we didn't think were possible. We're driven by analysis and logic today, but we might stretch our wings of thought into the realms of imagination anyway. The earthy Virgo Moon reflects our need to discern what's useful from what's not. But practicality may be ignored when clever Mercury connects with philosophical Jupiter. Nevertheless, physical anchors pull us back into place when stern Saturn reprimands pleasure-seeking Venus for luring us off the path of responsibility. We may value a more pragmatic approach to love today, prompting us to take a critical eye to our closest relationships. However, we could receive a touch of relief when mental Mercury makes a link to boundless Jupiter. Our success right now comes from striking a balance between working on our commitments and getting lost in our fantasies. If we choose to only have fun, we could end up regretting it later. Our actions may be limited by circumstances now, yet we won't likely just give up. Logic is our saving grace while the laser-sharp Virgo Moon promotes critical thinking. But an anxious Mars-Pluto aspect pits our immediate concerns against the powers that be. Thankfully, a Mercury-Mars sextile enables us to constructively talk about our anger. Meanwhile, the Moon shifts into diplomatic Libra at 4:47 pm EST, requiring us to see life from both sides. Today we might feel frustrated by where we are and where we wish we could be when it comes to the matters of the heart. No matter how we look at our situation, it appears that nothing will fall into place quite like we hoped it would. We must keep going even when we think it's time to surrender. Promising opportunities are waiting, but they'll never actualize if we back out now.   Stress continues to dissipate as the lovely Libra Moon forms friendly connections with resilient Mars, rational Mercury and the radiant Sun. Our responses are balanced by our need to moderate the energy of any situation rather than fueling it with our emotions. Meanwhile, a square between sweet Venus and joyful Jupiter tempts us to indulge our senses. Although we can take our pursuit of pleasure too far, we may regret excessive behavior later. A cosmic connection between Venus and Jupiter today is making it easier than ever for us to luxuriate and let loose. Unfortunately, it may come a little too easily, especially as our romantic feelings for someone are heightened right now. This energy could encourage us to act on our impulses with little regard for the lasting consequences, so it's best not overreach with our actions and words. Saving big commitments and promises for a time when practicality can prevail will produce the most favorable outcome. Interpersonal relationships grow complicated as the strategic Libra Moon forms anxious aspects with domineering Pluto and irrepressible Uranus. We might try to plot the smoothest course through the rough emotional terrain, but direct conflict with someone who threatens our peace of mind is still likely. Our search for harmony with others gives way to the desire to be true to our feelings once the Moon shifts into resolute Scorpio at 10:56 pm EST. A sudden twist in the plot of your love life will come out of the blue today, causing you to lose momentum with a special romantic interest. However, before you go looking for blame, consider the role you personally played in the kerfuffle. Own your own shadow and be honest about moments of drama or complications that have resulted out of something you've said or done. The sooner you can accept responsibility, the sooner you'll be back in the light of love. Passions rise while the moody Moon visits emotional Scorpio. A dynamic Moon-Mercury square creates conflict between our thoughts and our feelings, which could play out through relationship drama. Nevertheless, we may put a sudden end to the stressful dynamics by abruptly walking away when pleasure-seeking Venus sextiles wild Uranus. Ultimately, fantasies become more important than reality when Luna harmonizes with dreamy Neptune later this evening. Our thoughts and feelings are convoluted thanks to a contentious lunar square with mighty Mercury as the angsty Moon moves into sentimental Scorpio today. Our extra strong passions can be a lot to handle and the high-impact energy could result in relationship drama if we're not careful right now. If we attempt to take a step away from the romantic chaos for a spell, we'll still be pulled into our fervent fantasies once the Moon harmonizes with nebulous Neptune tonight.  Yesterday's unresolved issues may still be lingering, but they could reach a turning point today when the transformational Scorpio Moon forms a stressful square with the community-minded Aquarius Sun. Individual perspectives give way to group consensus, urging us to explore the new landscape that evolves as our fixed positions begin to change. We shift our focus from past trials to future possibilities while Luna tangos with hopeful Jupiter. A cosmic clarity arrives just in time to assist in helping us finally resolve relationship issues as the sensational Scorpio Moon creates an anxious square with the gracious Aquarius Sun today. We're more willing to collaborate with our significant others because peace and love go hand-in-hand. The Moon's interchange with sanguine Jupiter reminds us that it's time to let go of the past if the future of our love lives is important to us right now. Complex emotional entanglements dissipate as the reflective Moon shifts into far-seeing Sagittarius at 8:53 am EST. Rather than mucking about in subjectivity, we aim our adventurous intentions toward an objective target. Fortunately, a creative Mercury-Uranus connection inspires our plans with one brilliant idea after another. Meanwhile, the radiant Sun teams up with superhero Mars, giving us ample energy to work toward achieving our goals. Our emotions, that only just yesterday contained a layer of complexity, are now settling down thanks to the introspective Moon's arrival in futuristic Sagittarius today. We are much more specific about our romantic goals at the moment, pushing aside recent complacency about matters of the heart. One passionate thought after another inspires us to amp up a romantic relationships as the brilliant Sun connects with mighty Mars right now.  Keeping our eyes on the distant prize enables us to remain confident about our goals, rather than worrying about the possibility of encountering obstacles along the way. However, our optimism might temporarily be tested when the futuristic Aquarius Sun forms an anxious aspect to restrictive Saturn. Paradoxically, delays just strengthen our resolve. Instead of quitting, we improve our chances for success by honing our skills as we overcome setbacks. Perceiving obstacles along our romantic path is bound to happen as our love lives continue to unfold at this time. Thankfully, we have the power to stay positive today, although our optimism may be tested by the brilliant Aquarius Sun as it forms an anxious aspect to stubborn Saturn. This will only make us more determined, however, because somehow, we're motivated to avoid missteps and we're not going to let anything get in the way of our passionate plans right now. We're overly optimistic today, but there is potential trouble lurking just beyond our perceptions. The idealistic Sagittarius Moon reveals unrealized possibilities, prompting us to envision best-case scenarios as we look ahead. Venus shifts into compassionate Pisces, opening our hearts even further. Although the expansive Sun-Jupiter square encourages us to ignore limits, we must face our fate once the Moon enters karmic Capricorn at 9:20 pm EST. We mustn't give in to our hyper-idealized visions of love today because there may be trouble brewing with a special romantic relationship and being realistic is crucial today. The optimistic Sagittarius Moon shows us a world of potential in our love lives causing us to wile away the hours in deep reverie as we imagine our passionate futures. We are wide open as audacious Venus arrives in warmhearted Pisces, however we'll need to face reality with a bold spirit and a brave heart once the Moon returns to fateful Capricorn later tonight. In stark contrast to yesterday, we know exactly what our limits are today. The pragmatic Capricorn Moon urges us to take inventory of our resources and to calculate what we need to reach our goals. Although we may harbor idealistic fantasies, we're compelled to act on what is real once the reflective Moon joins forces with taskmaster Saturn this morning. Our future success is dependent on our willingness to prepare now for what's ahead. Yesterday may have seemed like we had unlimited romantic potential but today we're given a swift reality check thanks to the commonsense Capricorn Moon. Luna's wisdom helps us figure out what we really need to do to move closer to our relationship goals. We may still be fielding moments of romantic reverie at this time, but we'll only make a move if circumstances seem right and only after the thoughtful Moon shifts into serious Saturn. Being willing participants to the changes that unfold organically means we're literally going with the romantic flow right now. We are aware of the promises we made and fully intend to fulfill our obligations. But the serious Capricorn Moon conspires with transformational Pluto today, changing the rules of the game -- or even the game, itself. A plot twist might appear out of the blue while impulsive Mars activates erratic Uranus. Nevertheless, clever Mercury runs into authoritative Saturn, making it nearly impossible for us to talk our way out of our responsibilities. Just when things were starting to feel a bit stable, a surprising turn of events could throw relationships out of whack today. While it may seem impossible, we must prepare for the unexpected. Knowing that a sudden change may occur gives us the opportunity to get in front of our reactions and commit to responding in the calmest, most responsible way. Don't turn a molehill into a mountain. Be responsible, focus on solutions, and save the drama for another day.  The cosmos is reminding us to avoid excess by establishing clear boundaries today. Mischievous Mercury forms a dynamic square with bountiful Jupiter, tempting us to turn molehills into mountains. Our inflationary thinking is further stimulated by an exciting Sun-Uranus sextile that reveals radical solutions to problematic situations. Meanwhile, the Moon's shift into intelligent Aquarius at 10:11 am EST tricks us into believing we know it all. Too much of anything is not a good thing. Your current thoughts about what is (or isn't) happening in your love life could get the best of you today if you let them run wild. Rein things in now and focus on the root cause of your thoughts and feelings, and you could find an easy solution that you never thought of before.  This Valentine's Day might be more friendly than romantic, but love and affection are still waiting to be discovered. The emotionally cool Aquarius Moon craves social interaction but also encourages non-conformity. Nevertheless, silver-tongued Mercury creates a magical quintile to red-hot Mars, provoking words that lead to action. Meanwhile, sensual Venus empowers us to express our desires, even if we must wrestle control from formidable Pluto. We have a great ability to recognize love in our lives this Valentine's Day, regardless of our current relationship statuses. There's a friendly vibe in the air that draws us closer to others and invites us to strengthen the bonds we share in our partnerships, friendships, and community. Interestingly, the more we pull back from our feelings today, the more we may enjoy love, in all its many forms. An electric Aquarius New Moon at 4:05 pm EST is a Solar Eclipse that breaks up stuck energy and propels us into the future. Its conjunction with messenger Mercury makes communication key in processing this cosmic wake-up call. Unplanned conversations facilitate intellectual quantum leaps if we're prepared to jump. Although a Venus-Saturn sextile slows real progress, the Moon's shift into dreamy Pisces at 9:41 pm keeps our fantasies alive. Today's Solar Eclipse could bring a major turning point to our love lives. This jolt of energy can help pull us out of our romantic ruts by communicating the needs we may have been holding back. But we must be prepared for our loved ones to relay their needs as well, and be willing to make the changes they are asking for. The more open we are now, the faster we can rejuvenate our relationships.  We may try to restore balance to our lives, but the veil between fact and fiction is thin. Our fantasies leak into the real world, creating unexplainable coincidences if we are openminded enough to see them. We are toying with the outer limits of consciousness as the Sun and Mercury form a supernatural septile with realistic Saturn. Meanwhile, the imaginative Pisces Moon adds stress by crossing paths with contentious Mars and nebulous Neptune. It could feel as though lines are easily getting crossed in your romantic realm today. You see something as black, while your partner seems to think that it is white. You want to try and get closer, while your partner wants to spend some time apart. Rather than attempting to figure out which one of you is correct and getting frustrated, try reframing your perspective. Perhaps there isn't one definitive right answer, and the solution lies somewhere in the middle.  There is magic afoot -- or is that just confusion? We are challenged to know what's real by the thin line that distinguishes truth from illusion when pushy Mars dynamically squares nebulous Neptune. The Moon and Venus add to the uncertainty while they drift through sensitive Pisces. However, the Sun-Mercury conjunction in conceptual Aquarius enables us to benefit from an intellectual perspective until Mercury slips into Pisces late tonight. The thin veil between romantic reality and romantic reverie will be confusing today, but some of us may call it magical, too. Mighty Mars energetically squares amorphous Neptune, creating conditions that make finding truth in our love relationships a bit tricky. Perceptive Pisces embraces the Moon and beautiful Venus, but this will further our passionate puzzlement. Luckily, everything will start to look and feel more logical once Mercury transitions into Pisces late this evening. We can feel the energetic boost as the Moon blasts into pioneering Aries at 7:04 am EST. Intuitively, we know that it's time to begin something anew. The enterprising Aries Moon urges us to step into uncharted territory and instills us with the confidence we need to figure it out as we go along. There are five planets visiting indefinite Pisces once the Sun changes signs midday to join the pack, preventing us from being too sure about anything. The Moon rockets into progressive Aries this morning, showing us that something new is heading our way in matters of the heart. Luna inspires us to take a romantic risk, because even if we've feel unsure of ourselves lately, on this day confidence will be in ample supply. With several planets creating a buzz in shadowy Pisces, however, we're reminded not to become arrogant because cosmic conditions are still in flux right now. Finding our footing is tricky business while five planets float through dreamy Pisces. The dream world is a powerful source for inspiration, helping to guide us through complicated dramas in the real world. But paying attention to our intuition isn't always easy on us, especially when a wild Venus-Uranus connection tempts us with disruptive desires. Overstepping our bounds creates an immediate backlash by upsetting the emotional equilibrium. Pentagonal planets converge in pensive Pisces today, making it challenging for us to stay grounded regarding matters of love and romance. And yet, we know the value of reveling in our romantic reverie as our inner journeys always give us something we could use to manage the reality we find ourselves in. We mustn't solely rely on intuition, however, because a vicious Venus-Uranus connection will test our powers of control, and that can be challenging considering our heightened passions now. Being clear about our personal boundaries and those of our lover's will prove immeasurably useful at this moment. A series of complicated aspects creates confusion as we try to sort through the facts. But the truth is hard to find amidst the piles of conflicting information until the Moon plods into stabilizing Taurus at 2:11 pm EST, adding a healthy dose of common sense to our analysis. But reality may be difficult to swallow when our perspectives differ with someone else's. Power struggles are likely as we negotiate over which point of view will prevail. If you don't pay attention to the coy cues from your sweetheart, it may create some awkward moments in your love relationship today. You may realize that it's high time to share certain secrets, but you're worried how your personal admissions will be accepted. Staying mum is not the best way forward, however, because you may be sending confusing signals in your attempt to stay out of the emotional fray. In the end, the one you love will appreciate your efforts and in your ability to trust them with your confidential information. Dancing on the edges of reality is disorienting, but our influence on the future is greater than we think. The pragmatic Taurus Moon urges us to rely on our senses. But romantic Venus joins mystical Neptune to infuse perceptions with illusions, mixing fact and fiction. We draw ideas from our imaginations upon which to build foundations. Clever Mercury forms a cooperative sextile with Saturn, enabling us to make sustainable plans and execute them. Our romantic reality may be somewhat confusing today but we realize that we're building our future with every move we make at this time. The commonsense Taurus Moon reminds us that trusting all of our senses makes sense, however, that won't help us the disorienting situations we have to deal with while passionate Venus pairs up with nebulous Neptune right now. Luckily, when push comes to shove, the help we get from mental Mercury's harmonious sextile with Saturn means we'll be able to make ambitious plans with our lovers and make them come to life. We want to put our feet back down on solid ground today. It was fun to meander through our fantasies and imagine the possibilities, but the earthy Taurus Moon reminds us to get back to work in the real world. However, we could overdo our desire to make tangible progress while the Moon opposes giant Jupiter. But just when we think we might be getting somewhere, the Moon shifts into whimsical Gemini at 7:07 pm EST, spinning us in multiple directions. We've been enjoying some unusual and exciting chaos in our love lives lately, but on this day, we're ready to bring everything back to Earth. The commonsense Taurus Moon shows us the value of stability at this time, emotional and otherwise. However, with Luna opposing gigantic Jupiter, we may take our desire for practical progress in our love relationship too far at this time. We must stay on our toes because right when we think we're at a good place in our relationship circumstances, the Moon will arrive in playful Gemini, luring us back into sexy spontaneity. Curiosity hijacks our day as the data-seeking Gemini Moon pulls in one distraction after another. The reflective Moon's dynamic squares to the Sun and Mercury, both in illusory Pisces, pit our intellects against our fantasies. An anxious aspect between mental Mercury and unconventional Uranus ensures an endless supply of ingenious ideas. But the Sun illuminates shadowy Pluto, dragging our hidden feelings out of the subconscious and into the light. The inquisitive Gemini Moon entices us with romantic curiosity but her square to the Sun and Mercury in chimerical Pisces makes it tricky to find balance between our logic and our romantic reverie today. Mental Mercury's uncomfortable aspect with radical Uranus continues to amp up our fantasies with ingenious visions of love. Meanwhile, the Sun shining on dark Pluto will help us turn a bright light on our subconscious desires in order to transform a fledgling love connection into something extraordinary right now. Sometimes, isolating ourselves is not about being alone, but simply needing to escape. However, the predominance of otherworldly septiles empowers us to tune into the subtle rhythms of nature. The restless Gemini Moon activates nervous energy and keeps thoughts flowing. Unfortunately, the noise must be subdued to see the magic hidden within the silence. The Moon's shift into self-protective Cancer at 10:05 pm EST helps us find peace and quiet. We're eager to escape into our own worlds today, and if we play our cards right, we'll be able to find romance within the quietude. The antsy Gemini Moon continues to amp up the flow of our energies, but we'll have to try to settle down in order to really sink into our lover's arms right now. Once the Moon shifts into caring Cancer later tonight, we'll be able to find the peace that naturally transforms into passion. Interpersonal sparks fly, warming our hearts or creating destructive fires. A dynamic Venus-Mars square can start arguments or stimulate creativity. But fantasies are so vivid while cerebral Mercury joins surreal Neptune that we might be lost in our own thoughts. Emotions take the lead while the sensitive Cancer Moon forms harmonious trines with the Sun, Mercury and Neptune. Nevertheless, a pragmatic Sun-Saturn sextile helps us make our dreams real. What you believe are your passionate expressions may be perceived as unnecessary drama by your sweetheart today. Maddening Mars is amping up your words and actions, making everything you say and do seem like an emergency, which you know it's not. Consider this your cautionary cosmic alert to take your big energy and channel it in a constructive way. You're trying to share what's in your heart, not create trouble in paradise, right? Although we take our commitments seriously when magnetic Venus forms a magical quintile with trustworthy Saturn, we still might consider escaping into fantasies rather than dealing with the cold facts of life. Reality may rain on our parade, but the loyal Cancer Moon encourages us to endure hardship in the name of love. Nevertheless, our emotions are bounced all over the place until 11:41 pm EST when the Moon strides into extroverted Leo. Romantic reverie seems like the place to find solace today, especially if we're going through difficulties in our love lives while seductive Venus forms a bewitching quintile with stable Saturn. However, with the caring Cancer Moon on the cosmic scene, we are reminded that dealing with our relationship realities will serve us well at this time. Throughout the day, we must be willing to endure the up-and-down passionate emotions while the Moon moves through lively Leo now. We're ready to step up our relationship game today by sharing our feelings with someone special while the Moon is visiting demonstrative Leo. However, a string of seven uneasy lunar aspects indicates our heartfelt message may meet more resistance than we expect. Meanwhile, passionate Pluto forms a supportive sextile to pleasure-seeking Venus, fueling our intentions with volcanic heat that won't likely cool off until we express what's in our hearts. The Moon's transition into expressive Leo motivates us to share some deep emotions with someone we are attracted to or in a relationship with right now. Uncomfortable lunar aspects forewarn us that our communications may not be so easy to digest by our lovers, however, this won't stop us from revealing our most passionate secrets. Powerful Pluto forms a harmonious sextile with affectionate Venus, inspiring us to continue seeking a heart-to-heart connection until we finally say what we need to say today. We can only speak the whole truth today, even if we know conflict will follow. A creative Mercury-Saturn aspect encourages us to outline our thoughts, so communication is clear. A volatile Mercury-Mars square puts everyone on notice that we are less likely to back down from an argument, while the fixed Leo Moon adds to our stubbornness. But conversations quickly deepen while Mercury forms a cooperative sextile with Pluto, Lord of the Underworld. The truth will set us free in our love relationships, but it may come with a cost. Clear communication is crucial to us while an imaginative Mercury-Saturn aspect amps up our desire to share our hearts, but the immovable Leo Moon makes us stubborn as we find ourselves in contentious conditions created by an angry Mercury-Mars square right now. Luckily, Mercury's harmonious sextile with passionate Pluto allows us to deepen our understanding just in time to find peace within our love connections. We're blinded by optimism today, but we're not just grasping for straws. The Moon's shift into analytical Virgo at 12:57 am EST ensures that our thinking is clear and our logic is sound. The Virgo Full Moon at 7:51 pm pits our need for accuracy against the Pisces Sun's penchant for fantasy while the presence of Uranus means anything is possible. Luckily, everything looks better as beautiful Venus forms a superconductive trine to bountiful Jupiter. Even though our romantic optimism is sky-high today, we are thinking clearly and our logical approaches to relationship issues are sound thanks to the Moon's move into valid Virgo. Such cosmic conditions highlight our need to stay tethered to solid ground while the Pisces Sun tempts us with romantic fantasies and unpredictable Uranus makes us think we can do just about anything right now. Thankfully, once lovely Venus creates a bountiful trine to gigantic Jupiter, our romantic relationship circumstances will improve, no matter what. We continue on our bigger-is-better binge while brainy Mercury trines boisterous Jupiter, making it difficult for those in power to achieve true harmony. We can morph a minor occurrence into a major event, especially if we're under pressure to do something dramatic. The Sun's fateful septile to shadowy Pluto indicates that things may happen for no apparent reason, while the perfectionist Virgo Moon wants us to leave no variables unmanaged. Thanks to mental Mercury's trine with jumping Jupiter today, we may have the passionate penchant to go overboard in our love lives. We want to add drama and excitement into our romantic relationships, especially if we haven't experienced a sexy rush in a while. Meanwhile, the brilliant Sun's septile with pitchy Pluto shows us that unexpected surprises are possible within our love connections. Luckily, the careful Virgo Moon won't let us ignore important matters of the heart that need our attention now. Recent tensions begin to let up once the Moon enters harmonizing Libra at 3:20 am EST. Or, perhaps, we feel relief as the hectic pace slows down. Although life seems less intense today, we still could experience setbacks when the responsive Moon forms a stressful square to Saturn the Tester. Additionally, we might worry we're missing something that's just beyond our perceptions as the Moon creates five supernatural septiles throughout the day. The Moon's arrival in gentle Libra helps us let go of romantic tension today. We can feel the recent frenetic pace start to settle down, but with the sensitive Moon forming an uncomfortable square with serious Saturn, we may hit a few sexy snags along the way. Additionally, the Moon creates a handful of mysterious septiles now, making us wonder what we're missing in matters of the heart. Dreams spill over into reality today as the Sun makes its annual conjunction with illusory Neptune in psychic Pisces. Romantic fantasies are confusing as cerebral Mercury, sensual Venus and maverick Chiron also join forces in Pisces. This extraordinary cosmic lineup acts as a catalyst that increases compassion and inspires spiritual experiences. Meanwhile, the Libra Moon reminds us that everything, including ecstasy is better when it's in balance. The Sun's yearly conjunction with nebulous Neptune in supernatural Pisces will make it hard for us to distinguish reality from our fervent fantasies today. As an added cosmic bonus, mental Mercury, sexy Venus and rogue Chiron melt like hot cheese in passionate Pisces at this time, further separating us from the real world. Our romantic emotions are amped up so much but the balanced Libra Moon reminds us that everything is just that bit better when in moderation now, including passion. The current phase of our inner journey is nearing its end now that intellectual Mercury and sentimental Venus are spending their last day in compassionate Pisces. But the cosmos has a last-minute surprise for us as the Moon sneaks into passionate Scorpio at 8:22 am EST, reminding us that we are not in control of our emotions. We may be tired of the intensity, but evolutionary transformation requires hard work and we can't quit until we're done. Now that mental Mercury and voluptuous Venus are enjoying their last day occupying charitable Pisces, we see our latest inner romantic journey start to wane today as we get ready to turn our attention outward. However, with the Moon tiptoeing into sexy Scorpio, we'll still feel a lot of big emotions surrounding love and romance. The intensity isn't finished and we must continue to evolve along with our heart's passionate whims. Let the new times roll! Messenger Mercury kicks off the day by trumpeting his way into brash Aries. Vivacious Venus leaves her sedate Pisces palace, joining Mercury in the fast-tempered territory of Aries. But as eager as we are to bolt ahead, the fixed Scorpio Moon won't loosen her grip until we finish our metamorphosis from a caterpillar into a butterfly. Once completed, we still must fight our way out of the cocoon and into the world. This is the day we leave our chrysalis forms for bigger and bolder versions of ourselves. We're ready to embrace the intense romantic times that are just coming upon us as harbinger Mercury descends on audacious Aries today. As much as we'd love to bolt into action at this time, we must abide by the steadfast Scorpio Moon and be patient with ourselves until we are truly ready for our passionate metamorphoses to fully unfold. The urgency of expressing our attractions and desires makes for awkward interactions today. Mischievous Mercury and flirtatious Venus incite us to push boundaries on their first full day visit to incorrigible Aries. But the mysterious Scorpio Moon wants us to move slowly and build the intensity to a crescendo. Thankfully, the resistance dissipates once the Moon shifts into adventurous Sagittarius at 5:02 pm EST, freeing us to share our feelings. It can feel so awkward for us today as we fumble with our words trying to express feelings of love to someone we're attracted to at this time. Misbehaving Mercury and cheeky Venus move into impulsive Aries, prompting us to push our boundaries in order to take advantage of the passionate potential in our current romantic relationships. The Moon shifts into sexy Sagittarius later on this evening, giving us the cosmic thumbs up, allowing us to finally express what's in our hearts now. We might feel as if the wheels of progress are slowing down as a very deep note is played on the cosmic harp today. Giant Jupiter, planet of opportunity and success, grinds to an apparent stop to begin its four-month retrograde period. Inner exploration takes precedence over outer growth. But the optimistic Sagittarius Moon urges us to reach for the stars, while her square to delusional Neptune prompts us to believe we can do anything we imagine. Gigantic Jupiter's first day of its four-month retrograde phase may make it feel that success in our love lives is coming to a halt right now. However, this is the perfect time for some all-important inner work, especially if we want to keep matters of the heart flowing harmoniously well into the future. The sage Sagittarius Moon's square to nebulous Neptune shows us that even when we go inward, we can do positive things to make progress in our romantic worlds. We receive another blast of cosmic energy today that boosts our confidence and encourages us to take risks. The audacious Sagittarius Moon squares the Sun and teams up with warrior Mars, pushing us past our established limits. We each possess an inner superhero that we can embody now. Luna's superconductive trine to electric Uranus this evening shocks us with the brilliance of our own thoughts, giving us a taste of what it's like to be a genius. Taking romantic risks will seem perfectly rational as the bold Sagittarius Moon squares the Sun and mighty Mars today. Current cosmic conditions can have a positive impact on our romantic confidence and our thoughts will feel the full impact of Luna's superconductive trine to unpredictable Uranus right now, showing us the power of our visions of love. We seem to have all the wisdom we need and can comfortably rely on on our mental musings now. We must reconsider our plans as hopeful idealism is replaced by sensible realism. The Moon's shift into calculating Capricorn at 4:51 am EST reminds us that the choices we make today determine our future. Impulses are checked by the Moon's squares to Venus and Mercury in spontaneous Aries and her rendezvous with stern Saturn. Logical Mercury's late-night square to Saturn may raise doubts at first, but methodical work habits will be rewarded. Being realistic about love can be a downer, but it's important to stay grounded because our idealism can send us floating into impossible realms right now. The Moon's transition into cunning Capricorn cautions us to consider our relationship decisions wisely because once we make one today, it will definitely affect the future. The Moon's squares to Venus and Mercury in impetuous Aries and serious Saturn remind us that our passionate impulsiveness must be tamed while mental Mercury's nocturnal square to Saturn amps up our desire to work on quelling our romantic doubts. We're moving so fast that we may not be able to catch up with ourselves. Rowdy Mars harmonizes with radical Uranus, urging us to express our rebellious attitude. A Mercury-Jupiter hookup indicates we're likely to inflate our capabilities by thinking there's no limit to our energy. Oddly, a potent Sun-Pluto sextile increases our endurance, further encouraging our confidence. Nevertheless, the practical Capricorn Moon reminds us to proceed cautiously. Romance may feel like a whirlwind today while mighty Mars harmonizes with unpredictable Uranus, giving us reasons to be wild and rebellious. It may even feel as if our passionate energy is unstoppable thanks to a major Mercury-Jupiter liaison. Our confidence surges because of a powerful Sun-Pluto sextile, however, we will find reasons to be cautious with the commonsense Capricorn Moon in the cosmic picture right now. We may be quite confident with our career choices until something unexpected happens today. The ambitious Capricorn Moon is supported by the willful Sun and joyful Jupiter, adding to our sense of invincibility. But the Moon's midday square to unpredictable Uranus pits our cautious feelings against a sudden change of circumstance. Fortunately, the Moon's shift into conceptual Aquarius at 6:44 pm EDT increases our problem-solving abilities. Sudden changes could create complications in the balance between our work lives and our love lives today. The productive Capricorn Moon gets a boost from the stubborn Sun and jumping Jupiter, giving us a lot to feel confident about as the day begins. However, later on, the Moon's square with unruly Uranus amps up our emotions related to a tricky relationship situation. Luckily, by tonight, the Moon's move into visionary Aquarius brings us closer to finding a solution to help keep matters of the heart positive now. It's another push-pull day as generous Jupiter and stingy Saturn send conflicting messages to sweet Venus, indicating satisfaction may be elusive now, no matter what we do. However, gratification is only delayed, not denied because a fortuitous Sun-Jupiter trine eventually ensures a pleasant outcome. Thankfully, complications early in the day are not cause for worry, since the Aquarius Moon inspires us to maintain a healthy emotional detachment. Cosmic conditions may make finding sexy satisfaction almost impossible as jumping Jupiter and serious Saturn face off with voluptuous Venus today. Luckily, an auspicious Sun-Jupiter trine comes to our emotional rescue, making sure we find passionate joy no matter what. The Aquarius Moon peppers us with enough detachment to allow us to avoid drama and complications within our romantic relationships right now, which is exactly what we need. Recent setbacks and successes race through our minds today as an anxious half-square between optimistic Jupiter and pessimistic Saturn heightens immediate concerns without offering a clear solution. Meanwhile, the progressive Aquarius Moon enables us to stand back and take a more global approach to our personal problems. Balancing the good news and the bad news can be exhausting, especially if we place ourselves in the middle of every conflict. An angsty half-square between jovial Jupiter and serious Saturn amps up our romantic questions without giving us any answers today. Thankfully, the brilliant Aquarius Moon reminds us to take a step back from our sexy circumstances so that we could see them with a clearer perspective -- only getting some distance will do that. We must avoid getting into any and all relationship dramas while cosmic conditions bring us both good and bad news right now.  The cosmos offers us a remedial course in compassion today. The Moon's entry into empathic Pisces at 6:11 am EDT reminds us that we can't separate our wellbeing from emotional factors. Unfortunately, we may feel slightly alienated because several awkward lunar aspects can disconnect us from those we love. Thankfully, the imaginative Pisces Moon cooperatively sextiles sensible Saturn, enabling us to create tangible results from our efforts. Cosmic conditions conspire to show us what compassion means in the greater scope of love and romance at this time. The Moon moves into tenderhearted Pisces this morning, reminding us that paying close attention to our heart's truth is how we will find romantic joy. A handful of lunar aspects may give us a spell of crankiness, however, temporarily estranging us from our lovers. Luckily, the poetic Pisces Moon creates a harmonious sextile with sage Saturn, giving us the final nudge to make passionate progress with our love connections by nightfall. We are so wrapped up in our dreams now that it's nearly impossible to know what's true in the material world. The psychic Pisces Moon conspires with visionary Neptune, inspiring us to believe whatever we can imagine. Romantic fantasies seem very realistic while loving Venus forms a fateful alignment with physical Mars. However, we intuitively understand that our current connection to the cosmic magic could dissipate after tomorrow's Pisces New Moon. Our most passionate dreams are bubbling up to the surface of our consciousness today, making it challenging to see the real world in front of us. The visionary Pisces Moon harmonizes with nebulous Neptune, convincing us that we have the power to make any romantic dream come true now. Voluptuous Venus forms a destined alignment with mighty Mars, reminding us that this seductive connection to romance may lose a bit of magic once the Pisces New Moon enters the cosmic scene tomorrow. Our highspeed dash into the future is suspended long enough for us to take a refreshing dip in the oceanic waters of Pisces. Boundaries fade when the empathic Pisces New Moon at 9:11 am EDT reminds us that our separateness is an illusion. Nevertheless, we quickly return to our individual perspectives as defensive Mars enters calculating Capricorn. Personal ambitions are amplified once the Moon pushes her way into self-directed Aries at 2:56 pm. If we've been putting up roadblocks in our romantic relationships lately, we'll want to remove them thanks to the presence of the affectionate Pisces New Moon in our lives today. Meanwhile, mad Mars turns up the heat in cunning Capricorn, reminding us that we can still maintain our individual points of view. Our passionate ambitions are becoming more important to us right now and will continue to do so especially when the Moon moves into independent Aries later on this afternoon. It's as if we're paddling upstream today, confident we'll soon reach the source of the river. The enthusiastic Aries Moon reminds us we can do anything, while three more planets in Aries further encourage impulsive behavior. But a subtle ripple of self-doubt can build into a wave as the impressionable Pisces Sun joins Chiron the Wounded Healer. Memories of a past failure haunt us in the present moment until we forgive ourselves for being human. We're feeling more confidence about love and romance thanks to three planets and the Moon all colluding in Aries today. But before we get too cocky, the perceptive Pisces Sun joins wounded Chiron to bring us down a notch. We may get a flashback to a painful chapter in our love lives for a moment, only to be reminded that we have the power to forgive, forget and move our romantic worlds forward now. We are tired of delays and our impatience leads to impulsive behavior today. In fact, a rebellious attitude could provoke reckless actions when the spontaneous Aries Moon slams into wildcard Uranus. We need to get our feelings out into the open while they are so close to the surface. Although the Moon's shift into steady Taurus at 9:06 pm EDT stabilizes our emotions, her trine to Mars indicates that we will still say what's on our minds. If we feel impatient about our current romantic relationships, we may do something impulsive today. With the reactionary Aries Moon colliding with unpredictable Uranus, we'll have to be very careful about the next move we make in our love lives. One would think once the Moon shifts into tenacious Taurus we'll be able to get a grip on our emotions, but Luna's trine to mighty Mars means we may still have trouble biting our tongues. We find ourselves moving into new territory today as the Sun shifts into pioneering Aries at 12:15 pm EDT, marking the Spring Equinox in the Northern Hemisphere. We eagerly look ahead toward the possibilities of the new astrological year. We receive an additional boost from the expressive Mercury-Venus conjunction in Aries, urging us to share our feelings. Nevertheless, we are reminded by the earthy Taurus Moon to be practical in all that we do. The Sun's move into ambitious Aries marks the Spring Equinox in the Northern hemisphere today, reminding us that this is the perfect time to begin anew in our love lives. The brand new astrological year brings us much potential for passion and joy. Meanwhile, a loquacious Mercury-Venus conjunction in Aries amplifies our desire to share our innermost feelings with our romantic partners right now. Finally, taking a practical point from the seductive Taurus Moon shows us that even in romance, being pragmatic has its important purpose. We are feeling confident about the positive impact of our current actions with four planets in enthusiastic Aries. The fixed Taurus Moon trines potent Pluto, intensifying our resolve to finish whatever we start now. But Luna's opposition to exaggerating Jupiter displays warning signs if we overstep sensible limits. Although all systems are go, Mercury turns retrograde tomorrow and we intuitively know there could be delays around the corner. With four planets meandering in ardent Aries today, we are feeling confident that the actions we're about to take in our love lives will be fruitful at this time. We're reminded by the responsible Taurus Moon's trine with powerhouse Pluto to make sure to keep all our promises, however, a lunar opposition to gigantic Jupiter will point out the danger signs the moment we take things too far with a special love connection. This is the time to take action, especially because Mercury's about to turn retrograde, stalling our momentum for a spell. We may feel as if disjointed facts are racing around in circles in our heads, without going anywhere today. We're employing sound logic, but still can't reach any conclusions. The Moon skips into restless Gemini at 1:29 am EDT, making it tough to shut off the flow of our intellectual fountain. Nevertheless, mental Mercury starts its three-week backward trek now, prompting us to reconsider recent decisions and reconnect with people from our past. We may have to reconsider a recent decision we've made regarding a developing love connection, and it's not just because mysterious Mercury begins its three-week backwards dance today. The Moon's romp in jittery Gemini means we won't be able to think straight for a while. Luckily, since we realize that coming up with a logical solution to this romantic dilemma isn't possible right now, we must try to relax and let our thoughts and feelings settle until we're good and ready to reassess matters of the heart.  We're enthusiastic about taking control of our lives with four planets in self-willed Aries. The versatile Gemini Moon supports our active agendas, giving us words to describe our intentions. A transformational Sun-Pluto alignment shines the light of awareness into the darkness. However, emotional drama can sidetrack our process by creating awkward interpersonal dynamics when alluring Venus squares extreme Pluto, enticing our desires into the open. Four planets arrive in independent Aries today, inspiring us to take the bull by the horns in matters of love and romance. The ingenious Gemini Moon helps us find the words to convey what's in our hearts as we attempt to communicate our spirit of romantic adventure. Darkness from emotional trials fades thanks to an illuminating Sun-Pluto alignment and we're more open to discussing our most passionate desires with our lovers now. We may feel the power of unexpressed anger but must prevent it from transforming into resentment. The radiant Sun forms a conflictive square with contentious Mars, charging our emotions with adrenaline. But we might carefully hide our antagonism since the Moon slips into self-protective Cancer at 4:52 am EDT. The cosmic tension is exacerbated by Luna's stressful aspects with the Sun, Mars and Saturn, prompting us to keep our negativity to ourselves. The intense frustration or even anger that we may have felt about an aspect of our love lives lately must be dealt with today or it can transform into resentment or cynicism. Our emotions are amped up thanks to the brilliant Sun's angsty square with maddened Mars, but we may try to hide them due to the protective Cancer Moon forming tense aspects with the Sun, Mars and Saturn. But if concealing our inner negativity for a while helps to avoid more stress with our lovers right now, it may be the only way to help us get through this cosmic rough patch. An uneven flow of energy makes it tough to be consistent today. An awkward alignment between sensual Venus and extravagant Jupiter dangles a tantalizing carrot at the end of a stick for those who seek pleasure. But the tentative Cancer Moon urges us to respect boundaries, instead of plowing right through them. Unfortunately, claiming that our intentions are based on the good of all doesn't relieve us of the karmic implications of our current choices. For those of us seeking romantic pleasure, an uncomfortable alignment between sexy Venus and ginormous Jupiter will feel so much like a cosmic tease today. The careful Cancer Moon tries to convince us to reinforce emotional boundaries, however, we may feel radical and careless with our hearts for a while. If we can get through the day without ditching our commitment to our romantic karma, we'll get out of this momentary cosmic confusion with grace.  Our creative juices are flowing, as if a dam that was holding back the waters has suddenly vanished. We may actually feel the emotional weight lifting when the Moon happily prances into lively Leo at 7:44 am EDT. Luna's trine to the Aries Sun is a fiery energy that warms our hearts and encourages us to act on our impulses. Meanwhile, three planets in calculating Capricorn remind us that taking our time improves our chances of reaching our goals. We may feel as if all the weight is lifted off our shoulders today, especially regarding issues we've been experiencing in our love lives lately. The Moon arrives in happy-go-lucky Leo and trines the Aries Sun to create warm and fuzzy feelings in our hearts at this moment. Taking a chance on romance feels just right to us thanks to a collection of three planets in cunning, creative Capricorn and whatever actions we decide to take with the ones we love will have an ample, imaginative element to them right now.  Little annoyances come and go throughout the day while the extroverted Leo Moon continues to urge emotional expression from all quarters as she harmonizes with chatty Mercury, sweet Venus and rebellious Uranus in reckless Aries. An expansive Moon-Jupiter square further inspires optimism while the Sun pushes toward an unruly connection with exaggerating Jupiter. However, a sobering backlash from a Mars-Saturn conjunction is brewing in the days ahead. A lively Leo Moon is still urging us to express our deep emotions as she harmonizes with loquacious Mercury, sweet Venus and unpredictable Uranus in troublesome Aries today. We may feel more optimistic about love than we've felt for a while now thanks to a powerful Moon-Jupiter square as well as the Sunu00e2u20acu2122s intense connection with ginormous Jupiter. Let's take advantage of this positive cosmic energy because a stern Mars-Saturn conjunction is on its way and in the coming days, everything will start to feel more sober and serious. We need to narrow our focus in order to make decisions without being distracted by superfluous trivia. The Moon's shift into detail-oriented Virgo at 10:30 am EDT prompts us to concentrate so hard we might miss something significant that's right under our noses. Thankfully, we'll try something new when a rebellious Venus-Uranus conjunction tempts us with an unusual offer, an unexpected windfall or the possibility of tasting a forbidden fruit. During a challenging chapter in our love lives like the one we may be experiencing right at this moment, it would be wise to focus our energies on a decision that we may have to make in the days ahead. The Moon is moving into tactical Virgo, reminding us to pay attention to the small details that we tend to miss. A radical Venus-Uranus connection may usher in some crazy energy into our romantic worlds, bringing us distractions and desirous temptations that will be hard to ignore. Although in-depth discussions ferret out the sources of disagreement, new subjects of contention may suddenly arrive out of the blue. The Moon's square with coercive Pluto and opposition with explosive Uranus set the stage for a power struggle while retrograde Mercury passes between the Earth and the Sun to reactivate communication. Nevertheless, we still might grow tired of endless dialogue once the Moon slips into emotional Scorpio at 6:57 pm EDT. Just when we think our heart-to-heart conversations with our lovers will bear fruit, some tricky subject will rear its head and muck things up today. The Moon squares passionate Pluto and opposes unpredictable Uranus, creating cosmic hiccups while retrograde Mercury moves in between the brilliant Sun and the Earth, helping us reach for better words to represent our fervent feelings. Too much talk will eventually get boring and we'll seek emotional respite from the Moon once it slips into sentimental Scorpio.  Progress grinds to a halt when just-do-it Mars meets up with naysaying Saturn. Some of us are angry, disappointed or frustrated with Saturn's obstruction, but retrograde Mercury reaffirms that patience is more useful now than force. Luckily, there's a silver lining to the dark cloud and some of us appreciate the chance to improve our plans prior to executing them. Meanwhile, the Scorpio Moon increases the emotional intensity of our reactions. Muscular Mars mingles with serious Saturn today, bringing romantic progress with someone we're seeing to a virtual standstill. This will annoy us, frustrate us and disappoint us, but we can learn a valuable lesson of love from retrograde Mercury right now: Patience and determination through the rough patches is the key to fulfilling passionate potential in our romantic relationships. Let's consider this a cosmic cue to improve our sexy plans of action as we wait for the momentum to build once more. Our emotions are about to turn sky-high thanks to the seductive Scorpio Moon so let's embrace and care for our hungry hearts right now.  We are through the thickest part of the current cosmic bottleneck, but we won't likely see much progress right away. We're hopeful about the future as the emotional Scorpio Moon joins expansive Jupiter. But we're still restrained by unfulfilled promises now that the Moon forms an anxious alignment with the lingering Mars-Saturn conjunction. Yesterday's setbacks resonate through today's circumstances. Thankfully, we can expect movement by tomorrow. Recent energetic blocks in our our lives are on their way out today, however, we mustn't think that everything will now return back to normal straight away. The sentimental Scorpio Moon unites with giant Jupiter, giving us much hope for the future of our romantic connections. However, thanks to the Moon's angsty alignment with an incessant Mars-Saturn conjunction, we feel that there is still much to talk about regarding matters of the heart. On this day, let's revisit where we went wrong. By tomorrow we'll be ready to talk about the future once more.  Hope lifts our spirits today as the Moon soars into inspirational Sagittarius at 2:54 am EDT. Although clarity returns, we're not out of the woods yet since trickster Mercury is still retrograde, dragging our thoughts over familiar territory. But we are actively thinking about initiating action while Mercury dynamically squares enterprising Mars. Nevertheless, mental agitation can be distracting unless we find an outlet for our exciting ideas. The hopeful and inspirational Sagittarius Moon fills our hearts with optimism for all things love, however, retrograde Mercury continues to attempt to stall out our romantic momentum at this time. But because Mercury also energetically squares mighty Mars, we are determined to take action toward an important relationship goal. Yes, we may be distracted here and there, but if we can find an outlet for our excited, passionate energy, we will do fine right now. It seems as if we continue to face alternative waves of action and inaction. But we can't dance our way out of a predicament today as trickster Mercury squares karmic Saturn. We may need to pare back an overcommitted schedule or even call a timeout in order to regroup so we can move through the current resistance. Thankfully, we receive support in the form of cosmic encouragement while the audacious Sagittarius Moon trines the headstrong Aries Sun. We vacillate about whether or not to take action in a developing romantic predicament, however, given troublemaker Mercuryu00e2u20acu2122s square with serious Saturn, we don't really have a choice right now, because facing the music in matters of the heart should not be avoided. The daring Sagittarius Moon trines the brilliant Aries Sun, reminding us that as we struggle with some challenging aspects of our romantic worlds, the cosmos has our backs today.  Stretching our limits of comfort feels so easy that we could go too far. However, we quickly return to safe ground when the Moon shifts from expansive Sagittarius to stabilizing Capricorn at 2:01 pm EDT. Three planets in pioneering Aries encourage us to push ahead no matter what the risk. Meanwhile, four planets in cautious Capricorn warn us about the dangers of moving too fast. We can't choose one approach; we must honor both speed and reliability. We're at our peak comfort level with someone we're seeing, but our confidence could cause us to go too far in some way. If such a thing happens today, the Moon's transition from voluminous Sagittarius to Capricorn helps us regain balance quickly, reminding us to stay in the safe zone. But romantic risk-taking continues to obsess us thanks to three planets prodding ardent Aries right now. Luckily, with four planets connecting with cautious Capricorn, we will be able to hit the pause button if we sense trouble.  We're relieved to experience a well-deserved reprieve from recent stress as beautiful Venus trines stabilizing Saturn. However, we still need to manage a difficult situation when the controlling Capricorn Moon joins up with Saturn and Mars. Thankfully, the Moon is also trine Venus, confirming the idea that love overcomes nearly any obstacles. Nevertheless, we are unlikely to derive benefits from this cosmic setup unless we're willing to take a risk. Let's call this day a respite from the recent romantic ruckus while lovely Venus trines steadfast Saturn today. We may still have to manage some challenging matters of the heart while the cranky Capricorn Moon gangs up with Saturn and Mars, although Luna's trine with Venus will help us jump over obstacles quickly. Taking a chance on romance seems like the right thing to do, especially if we really want to make progress in a passionate partnership now.  Expanding our horizons is not always as simple as we might wish. Today's anxious connection between retrograde Mercury and bountiful Jupiter creates conflict as our old expectations meet new opportunities. Our thoughts are running around in circles unsuccessfully trying to justify our actions. Meanwhile, the calculating Capricorn Moon forms stressful aspects with the Sun, Pluto and Uranus, adding intensity and urgency to our emotional needs. As much as we want to expand our perceptions of the reality that is unfolding in our love lives, it's not always easy to do. An angsty link between retrograde Mercury and giant Jupiter rubs us the wrong way as we start to realize just how complicated new romantic opportunities could be for us. We're trying to justify our new plans with logic, but the Capricorn Moon's stressful aspects with the Sun, Pluto and Uranus remind us that our intense emotions are also an important part of the equation right now.  Concrete ambitions dissolve into intellectual concepts when the Moon enters ingenious Aquarius at 2:49 am EDT. There are no major planetary aspects today, so we're more likely to feel the disorienting fascination of the Moon's anxious aspect with surreal Neptune. Nevertheless, the Moon forms a cooperative sextile with cerebral Mercury, enabling us to gather the data we seek, including hidden gems of information buried in the unread pages of a book. Our best-laid plans of love and romance may have to take a back seat to more intellectual pursuits while the Moon arrives in brilliant Aquarius today. The Moon's harmonious sextile with mental Mercury will give us the opportunity to gather important information that we can use to benefit our current love life circumstances. But this isn't your average, run-of-the-mill data collection. You're becoming connected with deeper realms of your love connection, uncovering mysteries as you go.  The community-minded Aquarius Moon shifts our frame of reference away from ourselves and into social realms. Nevertheless, personal dynamics are intensified as the emotionally detached Aquarius Moon squares excessive Jupiter in provocative Scorpio. Meanwhile, we may be drawn into a difficult situation where we need to take a stand against oppressive people or institutions as the self-centered Aries Sun dynamically squares evolutionary Pluto. Our romantic worlds are affected by the broadminded Aquarius Moon as we start seeing our love relationships in the context of the bigger picture and not simply something that exists in this moment in time. The cool Aquarius Moon squares giant Jupiter in stimulating Scorpio, making us want to focus on the intricate dynamics of our romantic connections as we deal with a challenging issue with our significant others now. The selfish Aries Sun creates a dynamic square with progressive Pluto, reminding us to stand up for ourselves if we hit a relationship rough patch.  A clash of emotions might be unavoidable when the brash Aries Sun stressfully squares relentless Pluto. Thankfully, tensions pass when the cosmic lovers Venus and Mars tango across the sky. But we may take a good thing too far as the Sun illuminates extravagant Jupiter. Boundaries become even fuzzier once the Moon slips into dreamy Pisces at 2:39 pm EDT. A series of otherworldly septiles stretches reality further and reveals our hidden destiny. The bold Aries Sun creates an anxious square with powerful Pluto today, ushering in cosmic conditions that can cause tense emotions with our lovers today. Luckily for us, kissing cosmic companions Venus and Mars conspire to add positive energy to our romantic worlds. Once the Sun shines on giant Jupiter, however, we could take a good thing too far and since the slippery Pisces Moon currently blurs our emotional and physical boundaries, we'll have to be careful not to get into trouble. We may feel adrift in a sea of illusions today, or we might reach through the veil to make contact with the spirit realm. A fantasy-prone Venus-Neptune sextile enchants us to pursue beauty in both the physical and metaphysical worlds. Meanwhile, the imaginative Pisces Moon joins Neptune to reinforce the cosmic message. We can escape into our dreams to avoid reality or we can use them as if they are rough sketches of the future we are creating. Metaphysical magic finds its way into our love lives thanks to a nebulous Venus-Neptune sextile that entices us to embrace the passionate potential in our hearts today. An illusory Pisces Moon connects with Neptune, adding to the cosmic chemistry, luring us deeper into our romantic reverie. We can now use our muses to create visions of love that will inspire us to build a most sexy and satisfying future with our lovers. We strive to dissolve the boundaries that separate us from others while the Moon floats through introspective Pisces. The Moon's trine to buoyant Jupiter lifts our spirits and reminds us of our potential if we can conquer our limitations. Luna's late-night hookup with healer Chiron confirms the importance of compassion as a daily practice. The Moon rams her way into impetuous Aries at 11:25 pm EDT, directing us to be responsible for our own actions. Thanks to the Moon gliding along reflective Pisces waters today, we are eager to remove any barriers that come between ourselves and our paramours. Luna's trine to jumping Jupiter acts as a reminder that we can achieve anything we put our hearts into at this time, and her tryst with healing Chiron shows us the value of being kind and compassionate in our romantic relationships. Just before the day is done, the Moon's bold entry into audacious Aries will urge us to own every word we utter and own every action we take right now. It's as if some aspect of our lives is being frozen in time while everything else continues to move ahead. The impetuous Aries Moon encourages us to act while mischievous Mercury prevents our thoughts from reaching a conclusion until it turns direct tomorrow. A transformative Jupiter-Pluto sextile reveals hidden motives and sets the stage for positive transformation. Meanwhile, a shapeshifting Mars-Neptune alignment enables us to perform magic. It's hard to know what to do with complex romantic circumstances today. On one hand, we are compelled to take action thanks to the energy of the audacious Aries Moon, but mental Mercury still retrograding for one more day compels us to stop in our tracks, at least until tomorrow. We are poised for a passionate transformation thanks to a transmuting Jupiter-Pluto sextile and we are about to make real magic in our romantic worlds thanks to a nebulous Mars-Neptune alignment.  We are like surfers who must be vigilant if we want to catch the approaching cosmic wave. Preparation time is over and there's no time to lose if we are to make the most of the days and weeks ahead. The enterprising Aries New Moon at 9:57 pm EDT triggers immediate action without fear of the consequences. Meanwhile, messenger Mercury completes its three-week retrograde period and turns direct as obstacles, whether real or imagined, slowly fade. Today is the day when mental Mercury concludes its three-week retrograde shenanigans, allowing us to finally jump over any real or perceived hurdles in our love lives. We're no longer willing to wait to make progress in matters of the heart and we are poised to take action when and where it counts. The ardent Aries New Moon emboldens us to move a romantic situation forward with confidence, because nothing, including cosmic forces, can hold us back now. We intend to finish whatever we start but are endlessly distracted by fun possibilities. Although we land with our feet on the ground when the Moon steps into dependable Taurus at 4:50 am EDT, we also focus more on our senses. Nevertheless, a stressful Mercury-Venus connection shows us simple pleasures that are within reach, along with all the logical reasons not to pursue them. Meanwhile, an approaching Venus-Jupiter opposition urges us to indulge. As much as we'd love to focus on being productive, the promise of romantic playtime diverts our attention today. With the Moon moving into tenacious Taurus, we're more aware of our senses when we're in love. However, an angsty Mercury-Venus connection reminds us that we have a choice in whether or not we put our passionate pursuits above mundane tasks right now. Lucky for love, cosmic tie-breaker in a Venus-Jupiter opposition moves us to follow our hearts, not our heads. Our passions rise as beautiful Venus forms a harmonizing trine with potent Pluto. Although the intensity ratchets up a notch, it seems to flow with relative ease. The tactile Taurus Moon helps us stabilize our feelings by encouraging us to rely on our perceptions. Luna's connections with Mars, Jupiter, Pluto and Venus add urgency to the mix. Meanwhile, Chiron's shift into spontaneous Aries reminds us healing is available only in the present moment. Romantic intensity reaches a new level in our love lives as voluptuous Venus creates a harmonious trine with passionate Pluto today. The sensual Taurus Moon reminds us to trust our powerful perceptions of love, even if our emotions are deepened to the point of potentially disorienting ecstasy and joy. It's hard to be patient while the Moon connects with mighty Mars, giant Jupiter, powerful Pluto and beautiful Venus but we're even seeing the healing aspects of love thanks to Chiron's move into ardent Aries right now.  The atmosphere is charged with electric tension as the brilliant Sun hooks up with erratic Uranus. Thought storms activate our brains as neurons spark ingenious ideas. We are struck with epiphanies as if lightning is illuminating the sky. Meanwhile, the reflective Moon enters jittery Gemini at 8:02 am EDT, turning up the volume on all cerebral processes. Our practice is to find ways to transform the high-strung nervous energy into tangible results. Now that the radiant Sun merges with unpredictable Uranus, the energy in our love lives may ignite today. We are dazzled by romantic epiphanies that come out of nowhere, even if there is some emotional tension with a lover in addition to the sexual kind. The contemplative Moon moving on edgy Gemini adds more intensity to our thoughts and feelings. Focusing our spirit and vigor for the good of our love connections will go a long way toward helping us manage our unpredictable passions right now. The energy is subdued today, even though the restless Gemini Moon tempts us with endless distractions. Our desires won't be fulfilled while luxurious Venus crosses paths with austere Saturn, delaying satisfaction for a while. We are hopeful as clever Mercury creates an anxious aspect with optimistic Jupiter. But the pace of life slows down once the Sun finishes up its business in speedster Aries and plods into practical Taurus at 11:12 pm EDT. Even though we are epically distracted by romance while the jumping Gemini Moon is in the cosmic picture, we can't seem to get our energy up today. Stern Saturn scolds loving Venus, making it very tricky to fulfill our romantic desires for the moment. Mental Mercury creates an uncomfortable aspect with jovial Jupiter, bringing us the hope we need to endure this temporary dearth in matters of the heart right now. Sometimes, even you speedy Rams like to slow down enough to enjoy the moment rather than quickly rushing into the next one. Although your thoughts may still be racing, it's beginning to dawn on you that there's no need to be in a hurry in order to feel alive. As you reorient yourself to this kinder and gentler way of being, you start to notice that your mind is freer to absorb a wider spectrum of sensation than before. Golf champion Walter Hagen said, "You're only here for a short visit. Don't hurry, don't worry. And be sure to smell the flowers along the way." Cosmic conditions change on a dime now that the Sun has fully entered tenacious Taurus, inspiring us to simplify our love lives today. Meanwhile, the Moon's move into considerate Cancer reveals our desire to show our sweethearts our most nurturing side. We mustn't take our efforts too far, however, because our need to take care of our paramours can start to look and feel like smothering if we're not careful. The Sun's awkward alignment with nebulous Neptune means we may have difficulty paying attention to emotional boundaries in our romantic relationships. Balancing emotional needs with real-world responsibilities brings a relationship struggle out into the open. But we may withdraw into our insular shells rather than confront our concerns while the Moon moves through insecure Cancer. Luna's oppositions to Saturn, Mars and Pluto in hardworking Capricorn add to the tension between our personal and professional lives. Thankfully, our hearts can find peace when the Moon trines Neptune and Jupiter. The Moon moving through coy Cancer makes us want to withdraw into our contemplative shells, especially if weu00e2u20acu2122re dealing with an ongoing relationship concern. We are finding it challenging to come to the table with emotional openness, particularly if our current struggle is still making our love connections awkward. The Moon's opposition to Saturn, Mars and Pluto in industrious Capricorn highlights the tension between our work lives and our love lives right now. However, once the Moon trines Neptune and Jupiter, our hearts will breathe a sigh of relief. Although we are in an energetically expansive phase, nothing is moving very fast now. The Moon bounces into lively Leo at 1:08 pm EDT, amplifying our extroverted tendencies while creating conflict with the even-keeled Taurus Sun. However, a very subtle yet powerful tug draws us into the psychological depths as secretive Pluto turns retrograde. Meanwhile, a magical Venus-Neptune quintile inspires romanticism, spiritual pursuit and the love of beauty. The lively Leo Moon amplifies our positive and passionate energies today. However, since opaque Pluto is retrograde, we may experience some psychological undercurrents in our love relationships at this moment. Luckily, a cosmically conducive Venus-Neptune quintile reflects the desire we share with our lovers to reach inward, despite also wanting to display outward affections to one another. Bottom line; our inner explorations means a great deal in matters of the heart right now.  Fateful events mysteriously manifest as the seven-pointed star's otherworldly geometry dominates the day. Describing the indescribable is challenging, yet nothing is simple about today's planetary alignments. A Mercury-Venus septile invites messages about money and love from other dimensions. Although the solid Taurus Sun keeps us on Earth, our heads and hearts have slipped through a glass darkly and are journeying somewhere in a parallel universe. Curious cosmic conditions will bring us closer to realizing our romantic fates than ever before, as we find ourselves suddenly able to manifest something special in our love lives. A Mercury-Venus septile shows us that our messages of love are being received by the objects of our affections while the tenacious Taurus Sun connects us to our earthly goals. Such surreal, powerful energy can make us feel super sexy right now.  The cosmic energy opens wide, yet we might not know which way to proceed. An early morning Mars-Jupiter sextile increases our enthusiasm for an existing project. Although we won't necessarily start anything new, we're eager to explore our options. Romantic Venus pirouettes into lighthearted Gemini, tempting us with a variety of pleasurable possibilities. However, the Moon's shift into critical Virgo at 4:40 pm EDT inhibits foolish behavior. The passionate potential of a special love connection is apparent to us, but we are not sure how to move things forward right now. At times, we like the comfort of the status-quo as indicated by an early-day Mars-Jupiter sextile. So, even though we may not want to shake things up in our love relationships, we don't mind doing a few what-if scenarios in our minds. Whatever happens right now, we must be careful of our romantic impulsiveness once the Moon moves into demanding Virgo this afternoon. It might seem as if we are trying to solve an all-too-familiar problem once again as cerebral Mercury squares taskmaster Saturn for the third time since early March. We insist on moving into new territory while Mercury is visiting pioneering Aries, but we must first demonstrate our worthiness to authoritative Saturn. Meanwhile, the efficient Virgo Moon encourages practicality and enables us to concentrate on those things that matter most. Now that mental Mercury squares serious Saturn for the third time since early March, we may have to face a challenging, recurring situation in our love lives today. The fact that Mercury is in cahoots with ardent Aries inspires us to take chances on romance, but we may first be held to account by Saturn's bossy nature. Luckily, we will also be able to focus our energies on what matters to us the most right now thanks to the presence of the virtuous Virgo Moon in the cosmic forecast. We can expect trouble when the God of War conspires with the Lord of the Underworld. However, today's Mars-Pluto conjunction also enables us to defy the odds when defending our deepest passions. Power struggles are likely but fighting for the greater good is favored over selfish behavior. The discriminating Virgo Moon helps us choose our battles wisely until her shift into diplomatic Libra at 9:12 pm EDT moves the conflict to the negotiating table. Even though we may be facing some troublesome moments in our current romantic relationships, a Mars-Pluto conjunction gives us a cosmic boost to come out on top today. Although tensions with our paramours have been rising lately, we feel inspired not to give up the good fight to mend whatever is broken within our love connections right now. By tonight, the Moon will shift into gracious Libra, endowing us with the ability to make peace with our lovers.  We may be fascinated by the exquisite beauty and the incomprehensible magic that lurks in the shadows while the Sun forms a supernatural septile to surreal Neptune. Nevertheless, we can't relax enough to fully enjoy it because we are on guard against some unknown enemy as we move through uncharted territory now. Thankfully, we don't feel as if we're completely alone in our struggles while the sociable Libra Moon connects us to a larger community. We are captivated by a powerful, magical energy in our love lives as the brilliant Sun forms a metaphysical septile to nebulous Neptune today. But we are also aware of some resistant forces of energy which may be preventing us from relaxing into ourselves. Luckily, since the nurturing Libra Moon is also in the cosmic forecast, we find comfort emotionally connecting with our significant others right now. We're still trying to restore balance to our lives and, thankfully, the peace-seeking Libra Moon nudges us along the path to harmony. However, the Moon's midday squares to passionate Pluto and impulsive Mars reactivate unresolved feelings from earlier in the week. Meanwhile, a looming Sun-Saturn trine enables us to manifest the elusive stability in the midst of intense emotions as long as we surrender our attachments to any desired outcomes. Because our hearts are so big and full of compassion, we connect with today's peaceful Libra Moon and find ways to balance out any lopsidedness in our love lives. But once the Moon squares powerful Pluto and impetuous Mars, we may be reminded of an unresolved romantic relationship issue from several days ago. If we can let go of our need to control outcomes, we can use the energy from an imminent Sun-Saturn trine to stay grounded even during the most dramatic moments with our lovers right now.  It's as if we're finally allowed to go outside for recess, only to discover the weather is unconducive to play. The Moon shifts into adventurous Sagittarius at 11:19 am EDT, inviting us to extend our boundaries and reach for distant horizons. We're optimistic about the future, but sweet Venus forms uncomfortable aspects with snarky Mars and stern Saturn, raining on our fun parade. Acknowledging what we cannot control enables us to enjoy the rest. Adventurous Sagittarius welcomes the Moon this morning, giving us reason to finally leave the emotional warm fuzzy of living in our romantic comfort zones. We look at the future with more adventurous eyes today but we can so easily be brought down by uncomfortable aspects between lovely Venus, irked Mars and super-serious Saturn. Letting go of our need to control our love relationships lets them unfold more organically. Our good intentions may not be enough to put distance between yesterday's frustrations and tomorrow's resolutions. Although the true planets do not form any significant aspects today, we fill the emptiness with our feelings. The fiery Sagittarius Moon aligns harmoniously with interactive Mercury, inspiring us to discuss our plans with friends. However, the Moon's square to elusive Neptune opens the possibility of confusion rather than satisfaction. We will need more than a positive spirit to transform our challenging emotions surrounding recurring issues in our love lives today. The spirited Sagittarius Moon aligns with multidimensional Mercury, showing us ways to share our most passionate feelings with our significant others, even if it's not easy to do. But the Moon's square to nebulous Neptune has the potential to confuse and confound us, so we must do our best to stay connected to our heart's truth right now.  Although another astrologically quiet day allows us to address unresolved issues, we won't likely see much progress until later on. The fiery Sagittarius Moon inspires us to initiate action, thinking it will lead to an optimistic outcome. But we may discover that our conclusions were erroneous when stormy Uranus makes a cameo appearance. Luckily, the Moon's shift into earthy Capricorn at 10:05 pm EDT offers structure upon which we can make changes. Making progress in our passionate relationships may be elusive today, at least until later this evening. The motivated Sagittarius Moon spurs us on to make a bold move in our love lives because we believe in fairy tale endings and we may just get our wish. But thanks to unpredictable Uranus in the cosmic mix, our perceptions may not be all that accurate right now. Once the Moon moves into calmer Capricorn, we will feel more secure about matters of the heart. We're more serious about our accomplishments when the Moon is traveling through ambitious Capricorn. However, Luna forms a series of supernatural septiles, reminding us that unexpected plot twists can occur even when everything seems stable. The Moon's midday conjunction with taskmaster Saturn reveals where we're falling short of our expectations. There's no time for self-doubt; we must make necessary changes and recommit to achieving our goals. The Moon moves through calculating Capricorn today, making us much more aware of the positive things we've achieved in our love lives. But we mustn't get too comfortable in our current romantic circumstances as Luna's collection of secret septiles portends plot twists in our romantic worlds, while her midday conjunction with serious Saturn reveals just how much work we still need to do in matters of the heart. Another reminder that our dreams cannot unfold fully until we commit fully.  We may be fighting a losing battle as we try to remove our blinders and widen our perspectives today. Rational Mercury anxiously aspects broad-minded Jupiter, expanding our thoughts beyond the logic of the mundane world. But romantic Venus creates an awkward alignment with austere Saturn, requiring us to minimize our fantasies. Meanwhile, we might become obsessive about public recognition when the ambitious Capricorn Moon joins ruthless Pluto. Our quest to be more willing to see our lovers' points of view may not be easy today. Mental Mercury aspects ginormous Jupiter, enlarging our perspectives. Meanwhile, lovely Venus creates an awkward alignment with serious Saturn, shutting us off from our passionate visions, at least for a while. Finally, we must be careful not to obsess about matters of the heart when the ardent Capricorn Moon hooks up with persistent Pluto, making it difficult to calm our potent energies.  Levity replaces gravity when the Moon moves into progressive Aquarius at 10:48 am EDT. Our focus shifts from carrying the weight of responsibility to experiencing the lightness of being. An imaginative Sun-Neptune sextile encourages us to explore our fantasies without trying to make them real. We aren't restrained by rules if we keep everything inside our heads because a Venus-Uranus alignment frees our unconventional desires from containment. Seriousness moves aside and makes room for joy once the Moon shifts into enlightened Aquarius today. No longer do we feel weighed down by heavy emotions surrounding matters of the heart: We embrace our fantasies without succumbing to their magic while a creative Sun-Neptune sextile is in the cosmic forecast. A Venus-Uranus alignment inspires us to free our unconventional desires and reveal them to our lovers right now. Our nerves feel a bit frayed and our thoughts do battle with our passions while mental Mercury squares intense Pluto. Our commitment to living in integrity assures resolution, but we're likely to be confused during the process. It's challenging to express our true feelings as a romantic Venus-Neptune square dissolves boundaries between reality and fantasy. Meanwhile, the cool Aquarius Moon enables us to use our heads when traveling with our hearts. Mental Mercury squares powerful Pluto today, amplifying our emotions to the point of exhaustion, especially if we've been dealing with challenges in our love lives. We want to live and love with integrity but there may be confusion in our romantic interactions at this time. A voluptuous Venus-Neptune square makes us unable to spot the difference between reality and romantic reverie right now. Luckily, the chill Aquarius Moon helps us stay cool when passions get hot. There are no trivial matters today; every little action holds the potential to influence the future. Everything seems bigger and better now that the willful Sun opposes exorbitant Jupiter. We're prone to excess as the two largest objects in the solar system engage in a tug-of-war with us caught in the middle. The emotionally detached Aquarius Moon help us maintain a healthy perspective prior to her shift into whimsical Pisces at 11:10 pm EDT. Now that stubborn Sun opposes gigantic Jupiter, everything that occurs in our love lives seems bigger, better and more exaggerated than ever before. We are caught in the middle of a cosmic push-and-pull and every little action we take has the potential to affect our love relationship's future. Luckily, this intense energy won't steer us into trouble because the calm, cool and collected Aquarius Moon offers us a clear and healthy perspective on matters of the heart right now.  Maintaining an even flow of energy is challenging today. Sweet Venus misaligns with indulgent Jupiter, taking the ambitious wind out of our sails and setting us adrift. Self-motivation can be a problem unless we think there is pleasure to be found at our destination. Nevertheless, laziness doesn't necessarily equal comfort, since the dreamy Pisces Moon forms nine separate uneasy aspects, making it difficult for us to find a place of rest. Energetic ups and downs are likely in our love lives today as beauteous Venus misaligns with gentle Jupiter today, making it difficult to motivate ourselves to look for solutions. The introspective Pisces Moon creates nine uneasy aspects at this time, creating complicated conditions as we attempt to find comfort in our current romantic circumstances. We would love to regain our ambitiousness but we'll have to wait for that vibe to come back to matters of the heart right now.  We may process unresolved emotions today because a lack of astrological activity gives us a chance to hear our own internal harmonies without being distracted by external events. The imaginative Pisces Moon further encourages our explorations into spiritual realms. Luna's early morning hook-up with mystical Neptune adds color to the images surfacing from our subconscious. Additionally, the Moon's trine to Jupiter infuses us with hope for the future. This is the perfect day to ponder the most complex matters of the heart thanks to a lack of astrological distractions. We may want to seek metaphysical answers to our romantic questions today as we figure out how to deepen our romantic relationships in the context of our greater passionate purpose. Our fantasies transform into technicolor with nebulous Neptune flirting with the creative Pisces Moon, whose trine to jumbo Jupiter adds light and hope to our visions of love. We blast into an exciting new cosmic landscape today as the Moon enters fiery Aries at 8:40 am EDT. We are invited to go somewhere we've never been, and we can't wait to get started. However, our enthusiasm for what happens next is not just an idle distraction. The stable Taurus Sun forms a smooth trine with regenerative Pluto, reminding us that the universal process of life, death and rebirth contains mysteries beyond our limited understanding. New beginnings await our love lives today! The emotional Moon's shift into fiery Aries lights up the air with fresh energy and exciting possibilities. What is happening in our relationships now is part of something bigger, and while we may not realize what that is just yet, we must remember that the universe is supporting us in our quest for love and satisfaction. The only limits are the ones we place on ourselves. We are jazzed about future possibilities now that the Moon is moving through enterprising Aries. But interactive Mercury forms a dynamic square with contentious Mars, stirring conflict about whether to push ahead into new territory or to hold onto the status quo. However, these disagreements may be internal as we try to determine our best course of action while Mercury closes in on a hookup with erratic Uranus, portending intellectual breakthroughs. It's possible that we will feel caught in an emotional tug-of-war when it comes to matters of the heart today. On one hand, we are more inclined to consider what romantic liaisons might be on the other side of our personal horizons. However, the past may not loosen its grip as easily as we want it to. Finding the balance between the future and nostalgia will be the key to moving forward in the most advantageous way possible. Explosive communication can rock our lives as messenger Mercury tangos with irrepressible Uranus in fast-tempered Aries today. But, our thoughts begin to settle down just a couple of hours later when Mercury enters determined Taurus. Paradoxically, yesterday's excitement lingers while the Moon squares hot-tempered Mars and conjuncts Uranus. Our feelings enter the spotlight as the Moon joins Mercury just after she shifts into Taurus at 2:15 pm EDT. Relationships may be thrown off course by urgent conversations and surprising interactions today. When we're all worked up and feel like we aren't being heard, any attempt at connecting and communicating may seem futile. Use the moments of peace between this flaring energy to calm down -- things are feeling immediate now, but this isn't the new norm; this too shall pass. We're standing on a precipice of change as revolutionary Uranus spends its last day in Aries after a seven-year stay. Life seems uncertain, for we don't know what the future will bring. Although the practical Taurus Moon offers stability, an illusory Mercury-Neptune alignment takes it away. We resign ourselves to working hard while the Sun forms an anxious aspect to taskmaster Saturn, but an enthusiastic Mars-Jupiter quintile keeps our hopes alive. All the biggest relationship changes we've ever wanted to happen are now poised to happen as unconventional Uranus prepares to leave ardent Aries after a seven-year cosmic living arrangement. Uncertainty fills our hearts because we're unsure of what tomorrow will have in store for our love lives. A confusing Mercury-Neptune alignment may not allow the stable Taurus Moon to do its job for us today, but we won't give up. The Sun's angsty aspect to serious Saturn reminds us of the hard work in front of us, while a fervent Mars-Jupiter quintile shows us that our romantic hopes will keep the fires burning bright right now.  Once every seven years iconoclastic Uranus changes signs to revolutionize our lives. Today's pragmatic Taurus New Moon at 7:47 am EDT launches a stabilizing cycle of manifestation that enables us to ground the erratic energy. But the foundations are cracking under the tension as electric Uranus shifts into Taurus. The Moon's entry into jittery Gemini at 4:43 pm reminds us to hold onto our hats because this ride will have more twists than a pretzel. Skeptical Uranus can alter the trajectory of our love lives right now. We can see that any erratic energy we have regarding matters of the heart will now be grounded in our determination to build a stable foundation with our lovers. Unpredictable Uranus arrives in tenacious Taurus, creating unstable conditions while the jangly Gemini Moon underscores that cosmic sentiment to incite us to buckle up, because it's going to be a bumpy ride. We don't have time to adjust to recent cosmic changes before another round arrives. Action-hero Mars enters revolutionary Aquarius, stimulating free thinking and fomenting rebellion. Conventionality is tested as confrontational Mars squares unpredictable Uranus. Buried tensions suddenly rise to the surface, demanding our attention. Meanwhile, the curious Gemini Moon continues to throw facts at us, even if we don't know what to do with them. Rebellious romantic urges are prominent as we figure out what to do with the current cosmic conditions that fuel our love lives today. Mighty Mars seduces outrageous Aquarius, while also squaring shadowy Uranus right now. We're going to have to pay close attention to our passions, but they may not only be limited to the sexy kind: Our tempers could flare but the gentle Gemini Moon knows that helping us discover our truth via real facts can chill out our current angst. Expressing pent-up energy alleviates stress but can be stressful as well. We are in a period of rapid readjustment with rambunctious Mars and radical Uranus -- both newly arrived in fixed signs -- still locked in an explosive square. The Moon's sweet hookup with lovely Venus stretches into the future when Luna slips into nurturing Cancer at 5:47 pm EDT. Nevertheless, six separate supernatural septile aspects invite fateful magic into our lives. We try to express the passion in our hearts but sometimes the act of communicating our fiery feelings can be emotionally exhausting or uncomfortable today. Mad Mars and unpredictable Uranus are both stuck in fixed signs, but their stressful square can add more intensity to our conversations. We are aware that destiny is calling thanks to six supernatural septiles in the cosmic mix, and we look toward the future or our romantic realities as the late-day Cancer Moon cuddles with sweet Venus. A portal opens when trickster Mercury harmonizes with traditional Saturn, temporarily allowing us to see a more stable world. We longingly look toward a future that's a far cry from our present troubled reality, or we can make practical plans to improve the quality of our lives. Meanwhile, the emotional Cancer Moon forms a Grand Water Trine with imaginative Neptune and hopeful Jupiter, reminding us that anything is possible if we truly believe it. We'll get a glimpse of how stable our love lives can be when mental Mercury makes nice with the steady Sun today. Current relationship strife may have concerned us lately, but we're now ready trust in the future once again. We become more confident as the day unfolds and this may be thanks to the caring Cancer Moon's Grand Water Trine with fanciful Neptune and sanguine Jupiter. Soon, we'll have nothing but hope and optimism regarding matters of the heart.  The cosmic landscape undergoes profound change today and we may not be able to integrate the complexity. We're less likely to share our desires once congenial Venus slips into self-protective Cancer, but her sextile to wacky Uranus promotes risk-taking. On the other hand, we still need to be noticed by those we love when the Moon pirouettes into dramatic Leo at 7:10 pm EDT. Nevertheless, fantasies run rampant while dreamy Neptune is in the picture. There's a lot of cosmic changes happening at this moment, but we may not be ready for the fact that our love lives may also become more complicated as a result. Protective Cancer engulfs vulnerable Venus today, but her unusual sextile with unruly Uranus may prompt us to take romantic risks right now. Nebulous Neptune's energy is so present that we may also have some trouble snapping out of our passionate reverie, so being focused on the tasks at hand won't be easy for a while.  Strange rumblings continue to roll in, but this stressful period will not last. In fact, the Sun's shift into jumping Gemini at 10:14 pm EDT is a clear break from the recent energy. We might believe the cosmos is staging a last hurrah while the Sun is still steadfast in obstinate Taurus. But sweet Venus creates complicated connections today that add to the discomfort. Thankfully, the playful Leo Moon inspires us to have fun, no matter the cost. Just because romantic matters seem a little stressed right now, this energy will not last. The Sun arrives in generous Gemini late this evening, giving us a clear break from the strange vibes in our love relationships. Even though curious Venus creates complicated cosmic conditions at this moment, the lively Leo Moon will convince us that having fun with our lovers is about the best decision we could make today. An absence of planetary aspects heightens our attention to the subtle forces at play. The animated Leo Moon stirs the child within each of us, encouraging us to express our heart's desires. The curious Gemini Sun prompts us to dance with the possibilities without making lasting commitments. Meanwhile, a series of metaphysical lunar aspects maintains contact with the magic of the unknown until the Moon enters earthy Virgo at 10:02 pm EDT. We can focus on the pure, unadulterated energy in our love lives without cosmic interference today. Our hearts want to play and the lively Leo Moon amps up that joy that we feel surrounding matters of the heart. We are inspired to revel in romantic positivity as the gentle Gemini Sun frees us from being weighed down by heaviness. The Moon's entry into homey Virgo invites us to explore metaphysical realms of love and romance tonight, making for a potentially magical evening.  Communication is the key ingredient while talkative Mercury is in the spotlight. Mercury's collaborative sextile to spiritual Neptune supercharges our words with the power of myth and symbol, while its tense opposition to Jupiter leads to idealistic thinking. Meanwhile, the Sun in witty Gemini and the Moon in logical Virgo confirm the importance of all things connected to language. Additionally, Chiron the Healer reveals a path toward forgiveness. Loquacious Mercury creates a harmonious sextile with supernal Neptune, amping up our words with symbolic sentimentality and poetic passion. But a tense opposition with ginormous Jupiter may cause us to be overly idealistic about matters of the heart. Language and communication take a front seat in our relationship show today as the Gemini Sun and Virgo Moon inspire us to speak from our hearts in order to really connect with our paramours. If it's required, forgiveness will come easily while healer Chiron adds its cosmic benevolence into the mix. So much has changed in such a short period of time that it's nearly impossible to understand how all the disparate pieces will eventually fit together. The restless Gemini Sun can tire us out but its trine to physical Mars in freethinking Aquarius provides us with an innovative plan along with the stamina to finish whatever we start. Meanwhile, the efficient Virgo Moon forms a practical Grand Earth Trine and ensures success if we play by the rules. Our romantic world feels like a giant puzzle lately and all the pieces seem to keep moving around today. The angst-filled Gemini Sun trines mad Mars in unconventional Aquarius, helping us complete whatever we start in matters of the heart. The concise Virgo Moon creates an efficient Grand Fire Trine, reminding us not to bend the rules in our love relationships right now.  We are guided by rational thought today, but even our coolest logic is altered by our feelings. The Moon shifts into even-keeled Libra at 2:51 am EDT, tilting the cosmic influence toward objectivity. The Moon forms a Grand Air Trine with ardent Mars and the willful Sun, creating a self-referential system to justify our opinions. But confidence slips away when the Moon squares the approaching Venus-Saturn opposition to test our loyalty in love. We will do all we can to remain logical and calm during emotionally heated moments with our partners today, but it won't be easy. The Moon's move into relaxed Libra helps us stay objective even during tricky conversations and interactions that affect our romantic relationships, and once the Moon squares an oncoming Venus-Saturn opposition, we'll double our efforts to give ample space to let love loom large. Our dreams are uncontainable as expansive Jupiter trines imaginative Neptune in a long-lasting aspect that keeps our hopes alive even when the going gets tough. But we're not limited to uplifting visions of rainbows and unicorns now that messenger Mercury trines shadowy Pluto. Exploring the darkness encourages us to reveal hidden emotions, transforming fear into love. Meanwhile, the Libra Moon reflects our dance with the cosmic opposites. Giant Jupiter trines fantastical Neptune today, creating a positive cosmic aspect which will help us overcome challenging moments with our lovers. Even though mental Mercury trines dark Pluto, we won't be fooled into only focusing on our idealized notions of matters of the heart. In fact, we're going to go out of our way to explore the shadowier realms of our love connections. Cosmic contradictions play a big part in the unfolding of our romantic circumstances right now, as indicated by the presence of the paradoxical Libra Moon. Reality overpowers fantasy as romantic Venus tensely opposes stern Saturn. In relationships, our desires are contained by the rules we agree upon. Although communication may not be easy while interactive Mercury stresses Venus and Saturn, the results can be satisfying. The Moon's shift into passionate Scorpio at 9:39 am EDT intensifies our feelings, and her reactivation of the disruptive Mars-Uranus square could prompt an emotional breakthrough. Lovely Venus angrily opposes serious Saturn today, making reality and not fantasy our first priority. We make rules and want to stick to them, especially regarding our current romantic relationships. Mental Mercury stresses Venus and Saturn, making communicating with our partners a bit tricky. The Moon's move into sexy Scorpio will amp up our emotions but her affect on an uncomfortable Mars-Uranus square will help us reach an important revelation regarding matters of the heart right now.  It seems like a day of smooth sailing as the powerful Scorpio Moon forms several easy aspects, including a sweet trine to lovely Venus. The Moon's conjunction with propitious Jupiter is a sign of good fortune, but her flowing trine to dreamy Neptune makes room for magical fantasies to float in and out of reality. Nevertheless, an undertone of unexpressed ambition drives us forward while the Sun creates an anxious connection with relentless Pluto. Love will be easy, breezy and beautiful thanks to the profound Scorpio Moon's comfortable aspects, replete with a seductive trine to voluptuous Venus. Our romantic fantasies will float out from within our reverie and use the cosmic combo-platter of the Moon's conjunction with gigantic Jupiter and a trine to nebulous Neptune to advance itself into our reality. About the only warning we must heed is that ambitious energy may rise to the surface of our emotions, which may not play so nicely with the mellow vibe. Intense emotions are stewed and stirred today while the moody Moon makes her way through magnetic Scorpio. A lack of planetary aspects frees the Moon to tell her story of extreme passion. However, a Moon-Mercury opposition brings the realization that words only go so far in communication. The energy lightens up when Luna enters inspirational Sagittarius at 6:28 pm EDT, reminding us that life can be an adventure if we are open to new experiences. Attractive Scorpio is host to the moody Moon today, amping up our emotions surrounding romance with great intensity. A Moon-Mercury opposition reminds us that we must follow up our passionate words with clear actions. The dramatic energy will soon settle down, for once Luna arrives in stirring Sagittarius early this evening, we will be inspired to try something new and exciting in our romantic world.  Positivity abounds when sweet Venus perfects a Grand Water Trine. We cannot find much wrong with our lives when the Planet of Love harmoniously trines indulgent Jupiter and imaginative Neptune, creating an air of emotional self-sufficiency and vividly coloring our experiences today. We gain support from the stabilizing Capricorn Moon, but our thinking is sharp while quick-witted Mercury harmonizes with energetic Mars in intelligent air signs. Lovely Venus makes romance grander thanks to a Grand Water Trine with gigantic Jupiter and inventive Neptune dominating the cosmic forecast today. We're inspired to amp up our romantic experiences even as the chimerical Capricorn Moon keeps us grounded in our romantic energy. Meanwhile mental Mercury sings a cosmic chorus with nimble Mars in brilliant air signs right now, letting us know that bold, new love adventures are afoot!  Romantic fantasies linger as beautiful Venus forms an early morning trine with ephemeral Neptune. However, a confrontation with reality may be a not-so-gentle reminder to set aside our dreams to manage a pressing issue when rational Mercury argues a losing case to you-get-what-you-deserve Saturn. Nevertheless, change is in the air when the Moon shifts into progressive Aquarius at 6:06 pm EDT, followed by Luna's square to uncontrollable Uranus. When gorgeous Venus creates an early morning trine with unconventional Neptune, our romantic fantasies will rise to the surface of our consciousness. We may get the cold-shower feeling when mental Mercury gets into a cosmic row with serious Saturn, creating tension between our fervent fantasies and our serious realities right now. The push-pull energy will soften once the Moon arrives in dynamic Aquarius and creates a sexy square with unpredictable Uranus. A cosmically quiet day is a chance for many of us to catch up on our self-care. It's wise to reevaluate our existing commitments and make necessary changes to stay aligned with our hearts as the emotional energy from the Grand Water Trine lingers. The intellectual Aquarius Moon harmonizes with Mercury and the Sun, empowering us to rationally think about the future. Nevertheless, a hopeful Mercury-Jupiter connection keeps our fantasies alive. Emotional placidity comes from a Grand Water Trine while the curious Aquarius Moon harmonizes with Mercury and the brilliant Sun, inspiring us to embrace visions of future romance. We dive into our fantasies thanks to a joyful Mercury-Jupiter connection that amps up our creative spirits. Reflecting our commitment to love is the perfect way to get in touch with the most passionate matters of the heart right now.  A community-minded spirit drives the day as the Moon continues her visit to humanitarian Aquarius. We lose our separate points of view as the evolving consciousness of the group mind supersedes individual perspectives. We struggle to maintain our positions as antagonism between the disagreeing parties hijacks the day. However, establishing clear boundaries may be challenging as fleet-footed Mercury runs into a fateful aspect with strict Saturn. The compassionate Aquarius Moon offers us the ability to embrace the power of our relationships instead of simply focusing on our own selfish pursuits today. There may be moments where collaborating with our partners isn't easy, but maintaining clear emotional boundaries, although challenging, can set things straight while nimble Mercury aspects serious Saturn right now.  Decision-making is challenging when our emotions intensify and relationship dynamics grow more complex. We may be drawn into power struggles while innocent Venus opposes Dark Lord Pluto. Thankfully, the verbally interactive Sun-Mercury conjunction connects with both transformational Pluto and auspicious Jupiter, offering us a path upward. Meanwhile, the Moon's shift into spiritual Pisces at 6:53 am EDT further activates our vivid imaginations. Our romantic relationship circumstances may become more complex today and making decisions will not be so easy for us at this time. Childlike Venus opposes villainous Pluto, turning what should be calm and normal interactions with our sweethearts into potential power struggles. Luckily, a communicative Sun-Mercury conjunction plays nice with gigantic Jupiter while powerful Pluto amplifies our romantic imaginations, giving us a lot more oomph to manage tricky matters of the heart. Fuzzy-thinking Neptune runs the show but we still experience moments of clarity amidst a sea of fog. The Sun and Mercury form stressful squares to nebulous Neptune, hiding the truth with figments of our imagination. We must be careful of being misled, even by ourselves. Nevertheless, the Sun and Mercury also create half-squares with electric Uranus, awakening us from our daydreams. The surreal Pisces Moon joins Neptune to reinforce our fantasies. Nebulous Neptune is in cosmic charge today, however, if we're lucky, we may have an occasional clear thought, despite the romantic fog we find ourselves in at this moment. The truth about our love lives may seem fuzzy while the Sun and mental Mercury create uncomfortable squares to Neptune. Luckily, they also create half-squares with curious Uranus, showing us that gripping reality with two hands can work wonders right now. Discerning the truth is still tricky yet we become more comfortable today in spite of our lingering uncertainty. The willful Sun squares confusing Neptune, making it difficult to know what's real. However, our dreams are vivid and our artistic visions are amplified. Aside from a sweet early morning trine to Venus, the Moon remains quiet until she shifts into spontaneous Aries at 5:25 pm EDT, and we are again motivated to act on our impulses. While it may not be easy for us to figure out whatu00e2u20acu2122s behind a tricky love relationship situation, we will gain more confidence as we progress today. The stubborn Sun squares nebulous Neptune, virtually erasing the fuzzy line between our romantic ideals and our romantic reality. Our imaginations are amplified as we see our passion dreams for the future begin to take shape. The Moon will soon shift into argent Aries, inspiring us to take a big chance on romance right now. Confusion dissipates and we're eager for action while the Moon visits headstrong Aries. Overcoming obstacles early in the day should give us confidence, but we may be worried that more trouble is ahead. Meanwhile, quick-witted Mercury forms a magical connection with broad-minded Jupiter, enabling us to see far-reaching consequences to our current actions. Nevertheless, an anxious Moon-Jupiter aspect warns us that extravagance is not our friend. The ardent Aries Moon arrives just in time to help us move past recent confusion in our love lives. We're feeling more confident, although we know we're not totally out of the woods just yet. At the same time, brilliant Mercury hooks up with gigantic Jupiter, giving us the ability to fathom the repercussions that our actions will have on our romantic relationships today. A cosmic reminder from an overwrought Moon-Jupiter aspect reminds us that we must not push our luck in matters of the heart right now, and instead take a more measured approach. Communication remains at the forefront of the day, although conversations seem to develop a life of their own. An anxious Mercury-Mars connection fires up our words with an argumentative tone while a shocking Mercury-Uranus alignment adds the element of surprise. Additionally, the impulsive Aries Moon focuses us on the present moment. Luna's squares to extreme Pluto and magnetic Venus intensify our emotions, bringing us to the edge of conflict. We may be surprised at our capacity to turn a perfectly normal conversation with our lovers into a heated debate today. An uncomfortable Mercury-Mars connection may turn our moods fiery, especially while an offensive Mercury-Uranus alignment is on the cosmic scene, adding a dose of unpredictability into our day. Although we're inclined to pay attention to this moment in time, the Aries Moon's square to passionate Pluto and voluptuous Venus may intensify our emotions, making them too amped up to steer clear of trouble right now. It may be best to wait until the simmering energy passes to have big conversations.  The pace of life slows down today once the Moon enters plodding Taurus at 12:03 am EDT. Although we are prompted to simplify our schedules, there are still a few unexpected surprises that cross our paths. The Moon hooks up with unorthodox Uranus, enabling us to personalize the most radical cosmic forces. A supernatural Mercury-Pluto alignment reveals how our words can precipitate events from parallel universes and alter the fabric of our lives. Even if we've been working steadily to balance our love lives with our work lives, an unexpected twist in our day may surprise us today. The pace is definitely slowing down regarding matters of the heart, especially while the Moon is now moving through methodical Taurus, but Luna's connection with unpredictable Uranus will allow us to maintain momentum in our romantic relationships. This cosmic assistance is bolstered by an ethereal Mercury-Pluto alignment that will help to remind us to choose our words with care right now.  We strive to be practical when the Moon visits earthy Taurus. The ground feels familiar, yet we may not be happy, laying low until after the mid-week New Moon. Although gravity holds us in our place, a judicious application of levity lifts our spirits and defies the status quo as the Sun forms a creative aspect with jolly Jupiter. Meanwhile, we can't escape from a disquieting connection between the easygoing Gemini Sun and transformational Pluto. Today's Taurus Moon helps us remain practical about matters of the heart. We know what we're supposed to do with our current romantic connections, however, we may be compelled to maintain the status quo for now, at least until the New Moon checks in later this week. A lighthearted attitude will most definitely help us navigate challenging relationship waters but the jovial Gemini Sun connecting with spontaneous Pluto allows us stay positive right now. We grow more curious about our immediate surroundings once the Moon jumps into jittery Gemini at 2:52 am EDT. Communication is a mixed bag while cerebral Mercury forms a supernatural connection with fantasy-prone Neptune and an anxious aspect with philosophical Jupiter. Finding the truth is tricky because we're overwhelmed with unconnected data. Mercury's shift into receptive Cancer awakens our sense organs, enabling us to listen between the lines. Too many facts, or perhaps not enough of them, can feel like life is throwing us an unexpected curve ball today, especially regarding matters of the heart. Communicating with our paramours will be tricky while mental Mercury creates an ethereal link with nebulous Neptune, as well as an angsty aspect with metaphysical Jupiter. Luckily, with Mercury shifting into caring Cancer, we'll tap into our intuitive hearts to help us understand a cherished lover's message of love. Thoughts come and go, but choosing one idea as our intention sets our course for the weeks ahead. The versatile Gemini New Moon occurs at 3:43 pm EDT, marking the beginning of an intellectual lunar cycle that carries us from spring into summer. A brilliant Mercury-Uranus sextile creates sparks of innovation. Meanwhile, we want to personalize the energy now that messenger Mercury is in sensitive Cancer and sweet Venus sashays into lively Leo. Despite the fact that your intention is to take care of all of your unfinished business today, you may be grappling with a love relationship situation that will steal away much of your attention. Whatever is going on between you and the one you love, you know that you must take the time to make things right or the issue will only grow in size. Do not feel guilty about tending to sensitive matters of the heart right now: Your tasks will all still be there when you return.  The cosmic weather is unruly today as conflicting currents create stress at home and at work. The Moon's shift into nurturing Cancer at 3:19 am EDT reflects our need to retreat emotionally to care for those we love but her opposition to Saturn delays satisfaction. An anxious Sun-Mars aspect pulls us out of our hearts and into action. Meanwhile, an excitable Venus-Uranus square disrupts emotional expression by activating irrational desires. We're going to need a long energetic nap after the cosmic storm we may have to face in matters of the heart today. On one hand, the caring Cancer Moon feeds our need for quiet romantic moments, but her opposition to stern Saturn means we could wind up disappointed. Occasional irrational desires muck up the emotional landscape even further thanks to an edgy Venus-Uranus square. Luckily, a brilliant Sun-Mars aspect can help us get out from behind our distracting obsessions and take action to improve our love relationships. An odd juxtaposition of planetary forces encourage fantasy prior to enforcing reality. The caring Cancer Moon forms a Grand Water Trine with expansive Jupiter and dispersive Neptune. Meanwhile, flirtatious Venus entices us with visions of beauty. However, all the magical potential comes to an end if we lose touch with the real world. Trickster Mercury must answer to the inarguable judgment of Saturn as their opposition pits words against actions. Cosmic conditions entice us to embrace our romantic reverie, even if we have business to take care of today. Voluptuous Venus tempts us with fantasies while the compassionate Cancer Moon forms a Grand Water Trine with giant Jupiter and nebulous Neptune. It won't be easy to accept the reality of our love lives at the moment, especially with mental Mercury duking it out with serious Saturn right now. Even though staying grounded may seem like a tall order, we'd be wise to try. The weight of responsibility is lifted from our shoulders once the Moon shifts into playful Leo at 3:20 am EDT. But relationship dramas continue to follow us through the day as the Moon forms stressful aspects with erratic Uranus, magnetic Venus and contentious Mars. Knowing how much to say about our concerns is difficult while chatty Mercury misaligns with pushy Mars. Meanwhile, a tense Uranus-Neptune connection sets logic against our dreams. Even though the energy around us will feel more bright once the Moon moves into lighthearted Leo today, some of us will notice relationship woes still weighing us down for a while. This is thanks to the Moon's uncomfortable aspects with unpredictable Uranus, attractive Venus and maddening Mars. We won't know exactly how much of our frustrations we can reveal while mouthy Mercury misaligns with militant Mars, but following our romantic intuition can be incredibly useful right now. The complexity of life settles down today and we're hopeful about a new wave of simplicity. We may set ourselves up for disappointment by aiming our goals too high. Although there are no major planetary aspects in the cosmic mix, the bold Leo Moon encourages us to ask for what we want. Unfortunately, satisfaction may require a longer waiting period while the Moon forms several uncomfortable aspects, culminating with a stabilizing sextile to the Sun. We really want to simplify our love lives, and we may get the opportunity to do that today. However, if we set our expectations too high, and if we assume we can make big changes all at once, we will likely be disappointed. The lively Leo Moon inspires us to continue reaching for greater romantic heights with our paramours right now, while the Moon creates a symmetrical sextile to the brilliant Sun, reminding us to be patient as we continue to move our love relationships forward. We need to reestablish our stability today as the Moon shifts into earthy Virgo at 4:40 am EDT. Although we analyze the incoming data in a practical manner, the Moon's trine to rebellious Uranus encourages radical thinking. Thankfully, a lunar trine to shrewd Saturn enables us to rein in our emotions so we can accomplish our goals. However, amorphous Neptune turns retrograde, opening a doorway into the indefinite realms of our imaginations. It's time to amp up our efforts to bring harmony back into our current love relationship circumstances now that the Moon meanders into steady Virgo today. Luna's trine with unpredictable Uranus still makes us lean toward the radical ends of our spectrums but we'll be able to keep our emotions in check to help maintain stability within our love connections right now. We may feel an unpleasant emotional distance that creeps in between us and someone we love as vulnerable Venus forms an annoying alignment with unsentimental Saturn. However, we are tempted to hide our discomfort by focusing only on the brighter side of life. Communicator Mercury's smooth trine to exaggerating Jupiter amplifies any potentially good news. Thankfully, the conscientious Virgo Moon enables us to hold onto our sense of reality. Even though you're feeling quite confident about matters of the heart at the moment, you would be wise to keep it real because you could wind up misreading a romantic situation. As nice as it feels to have unbridled enthusiasm for romance, it may prevent you from seeing the big picture of your current relationship circumstances. Thereu00e2u20acu2122s a way to stay positive without overlooking the big picture of your romantic world, because you know that the truth will always be your best ally.  We may cling onto our feelings as if they are a security blanket that protects us from external negativity. Loquacious Mercury slips into an emotionally self-sufficient Grand Water Trine with pompous Jupiter and obscure Neptune, assuring us that we're on the right track -- even if we don't know where we're going. The Moon shifts into harmonizing Libra at 8:29 am EDT, helping us to balance our worldly trajectories with our individual creativity. If we perceive any negativity in our love lives today, we may find emotional comfort by climbing deeper into our protective shells. Chatty Mercury shifts into a confident Grand Water Trine with gigantic Jupiter and nebulous Neptune, letting us know that we are on the best and most direct path to relationship satisfaction, even if weu00e2u20acu2122re not sure where the path my end up. When it comes to love, trust is the name of the game right now. The North Pole is at maximum tilt toward the Sun, marking the Summer Solstice at 6:07 am EDT -- the moment the Sun enters the sign of Cancer the Crab. The Sun's shift into nurturing Cancer brings long hours of daylight that warm us and speed the growth of vegetation. However, personal relationship dynamics are the primary source of tension because unexpressed emotions are easily projected onto someone we love as sweet Venus opposes spicy Mars. The longest day of the year means there's potential magic to be enjoyed in our love lives as the Sun shifts into Cancer today: We must be aware of certain dangers, however, since passionate Venus opposes mighty Mars, creating potentially tricky moments in our romantic relationships. Projecting our emotions on our lovers can create tension but knowing that the day is long, we can surely find the time to bring the light back into our romantic connections by expressing our heartfelt emotions with care and compassion. Romantic desires set the stage today, but the scene changes suddenly when harmony is replaced by intensity. The artful Libra Moon reflects our need for equilibrium but her shift into passionate Scorpio at 3:10 pm EDT pushes our emotions to the extreme. A magical Venus-Neptune alignment fires up our cerebral fantasies. But the willful Sun in resolute Cancer sextiles revolutionary Uranus, blowing away existing boundaries and making anything possible. We may be taken aback by the intensity of our romantic emotions today, especially if peaceful vibes within our love connections have been the norm lately. The sensitive Libra Moon mirrors our need for harmony but her transition into sexy Scorpio may amplify our feelings in a big way. Our fantasies are further magnified by the stubborn Sun in tenacious Cancer as it sextiles unpredictable Uranus: we may be convinced through repetitive romantic reverie that anything is possible, and we may even be willing to take down our boundaries in pursuit of sexy spontaneity.  We never know what we'll find once we open the door to unconscious drives and fears, but Messenger Mercury's opposition to secretive Pluto invites us to explore the emotional shadows. The Sun's square to wounded Chiron reminds us of old hurts as we seek forgiveness. Thankfully, the transformational Scorpio Moon aligns with buoyant Jupiter and spiritual Neptune, indicating a positive outcome when we shine the light of awareness into the darkness. If we accept a cosmic invitation to explore our emotional depths today, we'll be able to perceive our love life circumstances with more clarity than usual. Mental Mercury opposes private Pluto, inspiring us to delve into our subconscious desires related to love. The Sun's square to wounded Chiron shows us the power of forgiveness to move our relationships forward. Meanwhile, the metamorphic Scorpio Moon's alignment with jumping Jupiter and ethereal Neptune portends a positive result in matters of the heart, as long as we try to understand the shadows that occasionally attempt to block the light. Measuring the progress of transformation is challenging because the most dramatic changes may not be noticeable while they are occurring. Nevertheless, the regenerative Scorpio Moon fuels an evolutionary process as we turn fear into love. A pair of magical quintiles gives us a creative boost that can launch a new direction to a stagnant career. But it's best to start slowly and build momentum because heroic Mars turns retrograde in a couple of days. It's not always easy to detect just how much progress we've made in our love lives, especially if we're still seeing changes unfolding before our eyes today. An enlightening Scorpio Moon allows us to take our fears and transform them into positive actions while a duo of curious quintiles helps us find creative ways to amp up our romantic ambitions. Mighty Mars will be going retrograde within a couple of days, making this the perfect day to start building momentum in a special love relationship. Windows of opportunity open around us as the Moon strides into confident Sagittarius at 12:29 am EDT. The good news gets better while enthralling Venus squares uplifting Jupiter, convincing us that the best possible outcome will be the one to manifest. Although the cosmos seems to be inviting us to move ahead with our plans, enterprising Mars is slowing down to turn retrograde tomorrow. Unfortunately, progress is not as swift as we might expect. Good news for our love lives as we find new passionate potential with a special, sexy someone now that we're under the spell of the spirited Sagittarius Moon. Engaging Venus squares giant Jupiter today, showing us shortcuts to realizing the answers to our romantic curiosities. Despite the cosmic nudge forward, ambitious Mars is about to turn retrograde tomorrow, stalling our passionate progress before it gets a chance to build steam right now. The wheels of progress grind to a halt today when pioneering Mars in progressive Aquarius begins its retrograde period, requiring us to handle any unfinished business before moving forward. Although we may be in a hurry, we must be patient and wait to see where life is taking us when Mars turns direct on August 27. Meanwhile, the impatient Sagittarius Moon aims our attention at the distant horizon as we wonder why it's taking so long to get there. It's time to tie up any loose ends in our love lives or we will not be able to move forward with our current romantic goals. Independent Mars in avant-garde Aquarius begins its retrograde phase today, imploring us to do the right thing in matters of the heart. We're going to have to cool our jets until we get used to the new, unusual cosmic perspectives, especially while the antsy Sagittarius Moon amps up our impatient energy right now. We may try to escape from reality today, but the cosmos delivers instant karma in three ways. First, the annual Sun-Saturn opposition reveals where we fall short of other people's expectations. Second, the Moon's shift into calculating Capricorn at 11:52 am EDT prompts us to set aside emotional needs where they conflict with our ambitions. And, third, a sobering Moon-Saturn conjunction demands that we fix one problem before moving on to the next. A trifecta of cosmic conditions will thwart our attempts to run from our romantic reality today. A yearly Sun-Saturn opposition shows us ways that we may have come up short in a relationship matter. At the same time, a serious Moon-Saturn conjunction reminds us to focus on our current love life issues before moving ahead with ambitious goals, while the Capricorn Moon inspires us to table emotionally heavy conversations for a day when our feelings aren't as intense.  The pragmatic Capricorn Full Moon at 12:52 am EDT reminds us that our feelings may not be all that reliable. Nevertheless, Luna's conjunction with shrewd Saturn directs us to consider anything that could bring results. Meanwhile, the nurturing energy of the warm Cancer Sun is in stark contrast to the harsh judgment of the Capricorn Moon. We struggle between our drive to accomplish goals in the outer world and our need to protect our security within. Relying on our passionately romantic emotions for accuracy is quite a paradox today, especially while the logical Capricorn Full Moon's conjunction with serious Saturn urges us to make progress in our love relationships. In contrast with Luna's judgmental energy, the brilliant Cancer Sun offers warm, affectionate vibes to help us accomplish our relationship goals right now.  We might try to sweep our emotions under the rug while the Aquarius Moon is in the picture because feelings can be messy compared to intellectual concepts. However, our attempts to deny our desires will require extra effort as romantic Venus forms difficult aspects with suspicious Pluto, skeptical Saturn and surreal Neptune. The struggle to find happiness is played out through interpersonal relationships when the Moon tensely opposes Venus. Today is a day when we might choose to rule with our heads rather than our hearts, because the politics of love won't be of interest to us. But despite how hard we run away from the feelings rumbling underneath the surface, we won't be able to hide from them. The cosmos is encouraging us to indulge our greatest fantasies. Instead of being afraid of what's behind the curtains, we should pull them back and see what's there.   The line between fantasy and reality is extremely thin today. The Moon is amplifying your connection to the spiritual realms, so if your ideas feel strange remember there is no logic when it comes to vision. Everything you see in the physical world began as a glimmer in someone's mind. Use your natural gifts of initiative and enterprise to take that first step to bring your dreams to fruition. You possess the ability to catalyze your expression into something spectacular if you only dare to believe. There comes a time when one must ask themselves whether they're in a relationship because they feel complete satisfaction or if they've simply become complacent. You could find yourself pondering this very thing today, trying to determine which side of that fence you're on. Don't be afraid to tap into your greatest emotional depths in search of your answer. Wherever your heart leads you is exactly where you're supposed to be. Ironically, intuition is the most reliable tool for navigation today as the imaginative Pisces Moon hooks up with psychic Neptune. However, our feelings are well integrated now because the Moon creates an emotionally self-sufficient Grand Water Trine with the receptive Cancer Sun and Jupiter in transformational Scorpio. The current illusion of separateness is magically replaced by our instinctual need to be one with the entire universe. Relying on our romantic intuition is logical while the fanciful Pisces Moon dances around mystical Neptune today. The Moon's Grand Water Trine with the sensitive Cancer Sun and Jupiter in metamorphic Scorpio helps us truly understand our emotions regarding a love relationship matter, allowing us to make a deeper connection with our lovers. When it comes to matters of the heart, we are suddenly aware of our romantic world being a part of a greater, cosmic whole right now. We may face feelings of alienation today as the reflective Moon continues her visit to spiritual Pisces. We are aware of our connection to the mysteries of the cosmos; but harsh lunar aspects keep reminding us that there is a difference between living a magical existence and being practical enough to survive in the mundane world. However, an otherworldly Sun-Mars alignment prompts unexplainable events that tether us to the metaphysical realms. Challenging emotions surrounding a romantic issue grip us today as the probing Moon moves through metaphysical Pisces. We can feel the connection we have to the cosmos all the way down to our bones, but we know that remaining practical about challenging matters of the heart is crucial at this time. An ethereal Sun-Mars alignment continues to point us toward abstractions, so keeping it real with our lovers will make a world of difference right now. We need to hold onto our hats now because the cosmic weather is turning wild. The Moon blasts into enthusiastic Aries at 12:49 am EDT, giving us the green light no matter what direction we are going. A propitious Sun-Jupiter trine is a harbinger of success, but blind optimism can lead to inflated expectations. We may oversell our ideas when pushy Mars opposes clever Mercury. Good vibrations produce positive results if we don't take things too far. Batten down the hatches! It's going to be a bumpy day in our love lives today! The ardent Aries Moon urges us to be bold in our romantic actions while an auspicious Sun-Jupiter trine makes us think anything is possible in matters of the heart. We must be careful of taking things too far while ambitious Mars opposes mental Mercury right now. Despite the wild and wonderful windfall of cosmically amped up passions, moderation is wise. We're driven to action by the fiery Aries Moon and our gut reactions influence our behavior. A sensitive Grand Water Trine consisting of the Sun in moody Cancer, Jupiter in provocative Scorpio and Neptune in compassionate Pisces stirs the emotional melting pot. Oddly enough, our feelings keep us grounded. Nevertheless, we are also artistically inspired while the Sun, Mercury and Venus form creative aspects with Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. We find ourselves compelled to take action in our love lives as the fervent Aries Moon romantically fires us up today. In a strange twist, our passions can help us feel more connected to our love lives, even while the Cancer Sun, Jupiter in Scorpio and Neptune in Pisces cosmically collude to amp up our emotions about relationship matters. We may attempt to use our ardent imaginations to help us find creative solutions to any issues we still feel are weighing down our hearts. Although we must be practical once the Moon shifts into determined Taurus at 8:50 am EDT, we might still experience bouts of uncertainty. The ground may shake and lives may quake as the Moon runs into irrepressible Uranus. Thankfully, we can find stability within our own hearts and minds while the Moon trines pragmatic Saturn. However, it's easy to let our feelings get the best of us when Luna squares contentious Mars later in the evening. Despite the fact that we need to use common sense in our love lives as decreed by the tenacious Taurus Moon, moments of confusion will have an impact on us today. Once the Moon moves into unpredictable Uranus, even more chaos is in the cosmic forecast, at least until we look to the Moon's trine to serious Saturn for stability. It's not easy staying cool when tempers flare with our lovers, especially when Luna's stressful square with maddening Mars seems to affect our evening plans. We are quite certain that our senses are working, and we know the truth now that the obstinate Taurus Moon forms three harmonizing aspects. Unfortunately, we might be incorrect in our assessment of reality. The Sun's sweet trine to surreal Neptune amplifies our fantasies and encourages dreaming. It's healthy to revel in the magic of our creative imagination as long as we take the time to clearly define the fine line between fact and fiction. The truth about love is plain for us all to see now that we can so easily connect with our hearts using the energy of the tenacious Taurus Moon and her three harmonizing aspects today. The Sun's delicious trine to nebulous Neptune encourages us to daydream and night-dream about the dance of love and romance, including its sometimes surreal aspects. There is real magic in our romantic fantasies and we can use them to boost our relationship realities, as long as we don't wind up going down the rabbit hole of our addictive reverie right now. The static from our own thinking is amplified today until it reaches a crescendo. An argumentative square between talkative Mercury and excessive Jupiter sets the stage for our monkey minds to chatter away. The Moon's shift into jittery Gemini at 12:58 pm EDT raises the ante by reflecting our need for constant communication. Thankfully, we reach a point when we want peace and quiet as valuable Venus slips into virtuous Virgo this evening. Annoying interactions with our lovers reach a tipping point today, despite the fact that none of our issues are all too serious at this time. Cosmic conditions coming from an angsty square between chatty Mercury and giant Jupiter mean our intensity is growing and showing, making misunderstandings possible in our love relationships. We seem to want to continuously communicate while the Moon moves into jangly Gemini. Luckily, consistent Venus arrives in upstanding Virgo this evening, helping us mellow out before we head out on our big dates. A deep note on the cosmic harp ripples through planetary cacophony today as giant Jupiter stands stationary to end its 4-month retrograde period. Previously unseen progress begins to work its way to the surface and into the atmosphere. However, the continuous babbling of the superficial Gemini Moon temporarily overshadows the long-term significance of hidden issues entering our awareness. From the silence beneath the noise our answers will arise. After a period of cosmic confusion, we can finally hear the sounds of harmonious notes ringing in our love lives today thanks to gigantic Jupiter screeching to a halt after a 4-month backwards romp. We ache to make passionate progress in our romantic relationships especially if it's been difficult to gain momentum with our lovers for a while. Hidden issues rise to the surface despite the covert activities of the Gemini Moon right now giving us a chance to find answers to our many questions. Subtle forces are at work today, creating events that don't seem to match our expectations. The Moon's shift into receptive Cancer at 1:58 pm EDT further sensitizes us to the sudden twists of fate. Although we might try to suppress the uncertainty, it continues to manifest until we finally embrace it. An unconventional Venus-Uranus trine attracts us to the excitement of non-conformity. The uncommon and the unusual become the objects of our desires. Romantic surprises come without warning while the Moon moves into curious Cancer today. Embracing this uncertainty is the only way to get through such tricky chapters in our romantic worlds, and we can use the cosmic energy from a radical Venus-Uranus trine to help us achieve great things as long as we embrace spontaneity with joy instead of fear right now. A profoundly powerful Cancer New Moon at 10:47 pm EDT is a Solar Eclipse that rattles the foundations upon which we build our individual and collective lives. The Crab's hard outer shell creates a sense of isolation as a byproduct of its need for self-protection. This eclipse is opposed to evolutionary Pluto, conjuring the mythical Phoenix that arises from the ashes of destruction. We have a choice since change is inevitable, but growth is optional. Change is the only constant in our love lives and thanks to a passionately profound Cancer New Moon that is a Solar Eclipse opposed to progressive Pluto, we're warned to hold on tight as our relationship foundations experience a seismic shift today. Our choice is to stand in resistance to the romantic transformations that take place in our romantic worlds or embrace them with open arms. Choosing the latter will bode well for us right now.  Making decisions is difficult as cosmic contradictions create confusion. The Moon's shift into heartfelt Leo at 1:30 pm EDT encourages us to proudly display our feelings of affection toward those we love. Our need to express ourselves with a flair prompts overstated gestures of magnanimity. However, the Moon's square to independent Uranus and her opposition to contentious Mars set up unnecessary boundaries that can prevent emotional satisfaction. Cosmic confusion makes decision-making a tricky proposition at this moment, particularly when it comes to current matters of the heart. We're inspired to share our big emotions with our lovers as the Moon moves into lively Leo today, however, we could easily take our grandiose gestures a bit too far as we try to manage our passions. The Moon's square to autonomous Uranus as well as an opposition to maddening Mars may create complications but our determination to let our hearts speak will win out in the end. We're like flowers in bloom under the summer Sun while the noble Leo Moon motivates us to open our hearts. The Moon's conjunction with interactive Mercury draws us into conversations about our feelings. However, romantic Venus simultaneously forms a smooth trine with unsentimental Saturn, restricting our emotional expression. An anxious Venus-Pluto connection further complicates communication because our reactions are too intense to process quickly. We are in passionate pursuit of romantic expression as the lively Leo Moon inspires us to share our emotions with our paramours today. A lunar conjunction with convertible Mercury makes it almost impossible for us to hold back what's in our hearts even as Venus creates a harmonious trine with serious Saturn, potentially putting a damper on our expressions of love. Luckily, an excitable Venus-Pluto connection is there to remind us to slow down and avoid emotional intensity if possible right now. A cosmically quiet day rewards us with time to think, even if there's a lot on our minds. The Moon's shift into analytical Virgo at 1:30 pm EDT sets our mental gears into action. But we can spin our wheels endlessly while the Moon forms a self-referential Grand Earth Trine with progressive Uranus and conservative Saturn. We know what must be done, but we resist doing it. Nevertheless, a karmic Mercury-Saturn aspect can give us the traction we need. Our thoughts about love may be racing but we'll have plenty of time to ponder passionate plans with our lovers today. The Moon moves into thorough Virgo, focusing our minds like a laser beam. However, the Moon's Grand Earth Trine with unpredictable Uranus and serious Saturn may cause us to obsess a bit about matters of the heart but a fateful Mercury-Saturn aspect helps us out by giving us a cosmic nudge in the right direction, at just the right moment.  Finding balance is tricky because the picky Virgo Moon needs nothing less than perfection. But harmony is elusive while an awkward connection between Venus and Mars prompts bickering over trivial issues. Additionally, mischievous Mercury misaligns with ruthless Pluto, leading us to think we can talk our way out of an impossible situation. Although details grow fuzzier when the Moon opposes ethereal Neptune, persistence leads to satisfaction. Love is never perfect but today's persnickety Virgo Moon may make us think we have to deliver the goods. Harmony will be tricky to find in our romantic relationships while Venus and Mars attempt to make-out like adolescent teens -- awkwardly! We can feel the fuzzy energy in our love lives as the Moon opposes nebulous Neptune right now, but our passionate persistence will help us rise to the top no matter what holds us down. We may fall short of our goals today if we set them too high. Optimism abounds while the Moon makes an exasperating connection with extravagant Jupiter. We think all will be fine, even if we add another complex project onto our current list of chores. Nevertheless, the Moon's entry into objective Libra at 3:42 pm EDT helps us reestablish equilibrium. Meanwhile, we must answer to stern Saturn who squeezes in the last judgmental word of the day. The stakes are sky-high in our love lives today, but with the Moon's magical mind-meld with giant Jupiter showering us with positive energy, buoyant optimism will keep us afloat even through the trickiest of relationship challenges. We can convince ourself that we can do just about anything, but this power vibe can morph into overconfidence quickly. Once Luna arrives in even-keeled Libra, we'll take back emotional control, even as steely Saturn flexes its cosmic muscles. An odd energetic flow catches us off guard today and pulls us off the path we thought we were following. Luna creates a series of fateful aspects with Uranus, Pluto, Neptune and Mercury, upsetting the status quo. Meanwhile, the diplomatic Libra Moon encourages us to negotiate with anyone who might complicate our lives. Although we are willing to adapt to unusual circumstances, we may discover that the journey back to simplicity is quite complex. We notice unexpected detours on our passionate paths today as the Moon creates destined aspects with Uranus, Pluto Mercury and Neptune. If we find ourselves in complicated romantic relationship circumstances, we'll be able to collaborate with our partners to avoid trouble and drama. However, even though we are more than capable of handling complex changes in our love lives, we'd much rather keep it simple right now.  Although we might prefer to spend some time on our own now, we don't have much of a choice when family dynamics drag us back into the center of an emotional drama. The people-pleasing Libra Moon wants us to get along with others at work but we need to take time off to attend to personal issues at home. But our desire to establish harmony morphs into our need to experience intensity once the Moon sneaks into passionate Scorpio at 9:12 pm EDT. We'd love to have a little space and time to figure out our romantic paradigms, but a relationship drama may get the best of our emotions today. The charming Libra Moon encourages us to get to the bottom of a love life snafu because better to nip these in the bud than let them grow gnarly roots. Once the Moon comes back into sexy Scorpio's passionate embraces, we'll be equally happy with intensity as we are with peaceful relations with our paramours.  Ruthless behavior is possible while the unrelenting Scorpio Moon blazes a path through other people's feelings. It's easy to inadvertently create pain; thankfully, self-awareness goes a long way to prevent destructive behavior. A creative spiritual connection between practical Saturn and psychic Neptune enables us to obtain tangible results from metaphysical truths. Meanwhile, a magical Venus-Mars alignment encourages us to choose love over fear. When romance goes downhill as it sometimes will, we can be tempted to lash out at our partners before we even have a chance to stop harsh words from exiting our lips. We must avoid impulsivity of this destructive nature at all costs today, especially while the single-minded Scorpio Moon dares us to fight until we get everything we want. It won't be easy, but we do have the choice to be calm, cool and collected, especially while a cosmic connection between serene Saturn and esoteric Neptune patches us directly into metaphysical realms. A mysterious Venus-Mars alignment reminds us that opting out of fear and embracing love can create magic and end drama in its tracks.  Clear communication has the power to transform a difficult encounter into a pleasant one. But there's no room for misunderstandings -- even trivial ones -- when the emotional Scorpio Moon forms a dynamic square with rational Mercury. Although it might be impossible to eliminate personal preferences, it's wise to avoid pushing our subjective views onto others. Strong opinions are not problematic as long as we keep our likes and dislikes to ourselves. Choosing our words with care can help us avoid a complicated kerfuffle in our love lives today. We must avoid misunderstandings with our paramours like the plague while the hyper-sensitive Scorpio Moon creates a lively square with mental Mercury. Stress is likely to grow in our romantic relationships if we feel the need to constantly share our most opinionated thoughts and attitudes right now.  Change is in the air as the Moon's shift into uplifting Sagittarius at 6:12 am EDT reminds us that the entire world heals when we improve our attitudes. A beautiful Venus-Jupiter sextile sets the stage for sweet love, but we must guard against overindulgence. Additionally, the expressive energy of summer begins to culminate as the Sun moves into showy Leo. We can feel the heat of emotion now that the Moon and the Sun are both in fire signs. A conscious attitude shift will do wonders for our love lives today as the Moon arrives in optimistic Sagittarius just in time to fuel us with positivity. We must watch out not to overindulge, however, because a magnetic Venus-Jupiter sextile can amplify our passions to a point of discomfort. Summer's romantic bounty continues to grow as the Sun seductively slips into lively Leo, creating conditions for sexy excess. We must pull in the reins of thought to prevent our imaginations from running wild. Establishing priorities and recognizing the boundaries of others is tough while the Sagittarius Moon encourages us to go beyond normal constraints. But the Moon's squares to romantic Venus and illusory Neptune tease us with unreachable fantasies and dreams. We are attracted to the unknown yet fearful of it when the dramatic Leo Sun forms an anxious aspect to Neptune. Our wild and wacky fantasies of love can be fun but not if we let them overtake our day today. Prioritizing our relationship issues may be tricky while the Sagittarius Moon amps up our emotions, but her square to voluptuous Venus and nebulous Neptune keeps us reaching for the reverie that makes us swoon. The climactic Leo Sun's angsty aspect to eccentric Neptune continues to magnetize us to love's mysteries, including ones that we usually fear.  It's all too easy to confuse our unfulfilled desires with reality today as seductive Venus opposes enchanting Neptune. Thankfully, we can avoid embarrassment or even heartbreak by asking questions to check out other people's feelings. It's not safe to assume we know what's inside someone else's mind. The problems created by mixing up fact and fiction are minimized with a little help from the Moon's shift into realistic Capricorn at 5:48 pm EDT. Our romantic desires can become confusing to us today as voluptuous Venus builds a border wall with nebulous Neptune. This is no time for us to make assumptions, and if we're experiencing challenging matters of the heart, it's time to have a sit-down with our partners and ask the tough questions, in a kind way. We cannot possibly know what our paramours are thinking or feeling, even if we think we do. Thanks to the cosmic energy from the prudent Capricorn Moon, we are reminded that real facts add up to the truth in our hearts, where as alternative facts are the lies we feed ourselves. The choice is ours.  Crazy days are upon us while wacky Uranus is in the cosmic spotlight. The tension is building and the lightning is ready to strike now that the boastful Leo Sun squares off with electric Uranus. Our emotions may be out of balance because flirtatious Venus is also stressfully aligned with Uranus. But the frustration level is as high as our excitement since mischievous Mercury is turning retrograde. Even the serious Capricorn Moon cannot stop change. Now that the cosmic weather includes the incoming weirdness from unpredictable Uranus, we must get ready and batten down the hatches in our love lives today. Sexy Venus creates an uncomfortable alignment with Uranus, throwing our passionate emotions off kilter. Maddening Mercury throws us extra-large frustration as it turns retrograde, furthering the intensity of the day. Change is inevitable in our romantic worlds so there's no point in digging our heels in right now.  It seems as if the entire cosmos is in reverse and forward progress is grinding to a halt. We might reconnect with someone from our past as Mercury begins its retrograde period, joining five other planets already retrograde. This is a perfect time to "re" -- retreat, review, re-evaluate, reconsider, reconnect. We may experience deja vu. But knowing which way to turn is difficult as an awkward Sun-Saturn misalignment further confounds our perceptions. The progress we've made in our love lives lately will screech to a halt and we may even feel things start to go backwards as Mercury begins it's retrograde phase once again. Taking time to reflect on what our hearts really want can help us clarify our passionate plans, even if everything seems to be moving in reverse now. Until an uncomfortable Sun-Saturn misalignment clears up, however, we won't really feel comfortable confronting our confused perceptions about matters of the heart. Weirdness is afoot once the Moon enters quirky Aquarius at 6:40 am EDT. We may need to shift directions as retrograde Mars hooks up with an Aquarius Full Moon Eclipse at 4:20 pm. Squares to wild Uranus indicate major breakthroughs or breakups. Passions run deep while magnetic Venus harmonizes with mysterious Pluto. But feelings can turn sour if they are not openly expressed. Misdirected anger is problematic if it has nowhere constructive to go. When it comes to love, it's either going to be a radical breakthrough or a big breakup as today's cosmic conditions contain plump seeds of change. Romance may get a little weird thanks to the energy of the bizarre Aquarius Moon while squares to unpredictable Uranus indicate this is do-or-die kind of day in our relationships. Expressing our feelings honestly is imperative, otherwise they may stagnate and turn into repressed angst, thus coming to grips with our passions is sure to lead to a major transformation in matters of the heart.  Whether we're recovering from emotional exhaustion or cleaning up leftover messes, everything seems larger than life. Ironically, the skies are rather peaceful today, as if they know we could use a dose of cosmic quietness. Thankfully, the progressive Aquarius Moon enables us to take a fresh look at our lives before deciding where we go from here. Nevertheless, there are six planets retrograde, indicating we'll likely change our minds several times. Even though there's love-related angst swimming through our souls, cosmic conditions will soon improve and offer moments of stress-free peace today. The forward-thinking Aquarius Moon helps us see our romantic relationships with new eyes, giving us a new perspective on what's possible in the future. But with six planets retrograding in unison, it may take a few go-arounds before we settle on how best to move forward in matters of the heart right now.  It seems as if we are on a runaway train, but an invisible hand is working the brakes. The Moon blasts into impulsive Aries at 6:54 am EDT, encouraging us to rush into the future as fast as we can. Additionally, a volatile Mars-Uranus square pushes us dangerously close to the edge of safety. However, the Sun and Moon each connect with stern Saturn, demanding that we slow down enough to regain control, maintain traction and keep our lives on track. Cosmic contradictions may create push-and-pull energy in our love lives. At first, we feel the Moon's rocketing into impetuous Aries, sending us over the edge as we try to push a love connection into a new paradigm. But an angsty Mars-Uranus square amps up the energy too much, placing us on the edge of danger. Luckily, with the Sun and the Moon connecting with serious Saturn, we are reminded to slow down before we lose control. This is how to keep chaotic matters of the heart from veering out of control right now. Our intuition brings us useful information just in the nick of time today. The proactive Aries Moon forms harmonious trines with the lively Leo Sun and Mercury, inspiring us to live in the present moment. However, the Moon runs into a conflictive square with domineering Pluto that pits spontaneous action against methodical planning. Ultimately, the Moon trines Mercury, enabling our heads and our hearts to work together for a common solution. Like clockwork, our intuitive hearts will come to our emotional rescue and remind us what we need to know before we get deeper involved in a dodgy romantic entanglement. The forward-thinking Aries Moon creates harmonious trines with the brilliant Leo Sun and mental Mercury, showing us the value of being in the moment. Of great value to us is the Moon's trine with Mercury, helping our thoughts and feelings coalesce into a healthy and informed attitude toward current matters of the heart.  It seems as if we're running out of time as the Moon finishes up her business in excitable Aries. Nevertheless, we can fixate on an unusual desire while magnetic Venus forms a creative connection with unconventional Uranus. Although the Moon plows her way into earthy Taurus at 3:50 pm EDT, her wild aspects to contentious Mars and erratic Uranus make it tricky to calm down the energy. Thankfully, a late-night Moon-Saturn trine brings peace of mind. The Moon is packing it up and ready to check out of ardent Aries today, making us feel like timing is of the essence regarding a developing romantic situation. Our desires become a bit askew while attractive Venus creates a harmonious connection with unruly Uranus. The passionate energy won't let up while the Taurus Moon aspects with mad Mars and unusual Uranus, but a nocturnal Moon-Saturn trine will eventually help us settle into ourselves as well as into our lovers' awaiting arms.  We are determined to return to the basics now that there are no significant planetary aspects to distract us from the simplistic needs of the practical Taurus Moon. However, paring away the complexities of modern life isn't as easy as it sounds, especially while the obstinate Taurus Moon forms an anxious square with the fixed Leo Sun. Excessive behavior can grow out of control, unless we wisely use our awareness to regularly monitor our actions. It's just us and the safe-and-sound Taurus Moon right now, ready to take on challenging romantic issues in practical ways. We yearn to keep it simple in our relationships and remind ourselves of the fundamentals that keep our love connections strong and solid. And yet, Luna's angsty square with the steadfast Leo Sun lets us know that our current passionate mission requires concentrated effort to make it real. Let's keep things grounded today, shall we? We swing into action before analyzing the alternative solutions, especially as an awkward Mercury-Pluto alignment challenges us to logically express our feelings. The Moon, Pluto and Venus create a Grand Earth Trine that hides our vulnerability behind a wall of self-sufficiency. Although overconfidence can create unnecessary barriers between people, the Moon dances into interactive Gemini at 9:31 pm EDT, inviting others to share their imperfections. Logic will be hard to come by if we attempt to tap into it during challenging romantic interactions with our paramours today. An uncomfortable Mercury-Pluto alignment prevents us from being able to express what's in our hearts in a rational manner, even though we're desperately searching for a solution to a gnarly relationship issue right now. The Moon, Pluto and Venus all interact within a Grand Earth Trine at this time, making it difficult to be emotionally vulnerable. Luckily, the Moon moving into gentle Gemini can help us find intimacy with our partners even during moments of stress.  We are bouncing off walls today as the jittery Gemini Moon skips through a wide range of aspects. It's as if we can't sit still because we're bothered by little things we might normally let slide. We may vacillate between extreme negativity and abundant positivity without finding a resting spot in the middle. Like the rising and falling tides, it's smarter to go with the flow, rather than attempting to justify our expansion or contraction. It's incredibly flattering to have multiple suitors vying for your attention, but what happens when you bite off more than you can chew? You might soon find out, Aries. Your dance card could have filled up more quickly than you expected -- and this could mean there's little time left over for the other things and people in your life. Instead of letting resentment build, simply be honest with your love interests. This will give you the breathing room you've been craving.  The curious Gemini Moon prompts us to search for logical explanations, but rationality fails as impossible coincidences remind us that the cosmos is stranger than we think. The Sun's supernatural alignments with shadowy Pluto and unpredictable Uranus open portals to parallel dimensions. Meanwhile, the Moon forms six more otherworldly connections, twisting fate into a pretzel. Luckily, a sweet Venus-Mars trine promotes balance in all relationships. Long story short: it's a weird day in love. We can try to act practically and speak in calculated ways with our partners, but strange underlying forces make the day anything but practical and calculated. What is meant to be will be -- we must simply trust that the universe has our back and what happens now is taking our hearts where they need to go. Although the cosmos erupts with multiple conflicting aspects today, the Moon's shift into moody Cancer at 12:00 am EDT places a damper on real-world activities. Our emotions run all over the map while Luna encounters one hard aspect after another. But reality is a moving line now as an awkward Sun-Neptune connection misleads us by confusing our senses. Nevertheless, we must speak from the heart when Mercury lines up with the Sun in affectionate Leo. The moody Cancer Moon brings out our most fervent feelings about our romantic relationships today. Meanwhile, an uncomfortable Sun-Neptune connection further bamboozles our hearts and minds, enough to make us do everything we can to avoid conflict with our paramours. Despite such cosmic confusion, Mercury in Leo implores us to keep trying to be heard, even if what we have to say is challenging right now.  We may feel unloved today as sweet Venus squares off with somber Saturn. We need not worry if a romantic relationship cools now; emotions rise and fall like the tides and we are wise to let them. But Venus forms an irritating connection with independent Uranus, making it difficult to decide if we should reveal our feelings to deepen a relationship or run for the hills. Meanwhile, an annoying Mercury-Neptune aspect weakens our powers of judgment. Vulnerable Venus dukes it out with stern Saturn today, making us feel let down by love. The energy in our romantic relationships is fluctuating in a big way, so we mustn't be surprised if the temperature in our hearts is cold instead of warm at this moment. We're not sure if we should flee the fray or open our hearts to our paramours while Venus forms an uncomfortable connection with unruly Uranus right now. Making decisions isn't a good idea while a tricky Mercury-Neptune aspect perplexes our perceptions. Luckily, all this cosmic confusion will soon be a thing of the past. Too much adrenaline in our bloodstream can prevent us from sleeping soundly now. The Moon's shift into extroverted Leo at 12:17 am EDT stirs up our drive for self-expression. Unfortunately, the Moon opposes combative Mars and squares rebellious Uranus, encouraging us to take unnecessary risks when expressing our feelings. However, we learn our lessons quickly when an anxious Sun-Saturn alignment stops us in our tracks until we get it right. Our need for self-expression is high at this moment, making us antsy about letting our paramours know what our hungry hearts need today. The Leo Moon's opposition to angry Mars as it squares unpredictable Uranus makes us want to take major risks as we attempt to share our strong emotions. Cosmic conditions will not let us take shortcuts in our relationships right now, so taking a clue from a powerful Sun-Saturn alignment will help us stay on track. Unexpected changes clear the air while establishing the structures for our next adventures. A dramatic Leo Solar Eclipse occurs at 5:57 am EDT, revealing parts of our psyche that are lingering in the shadows. This dynamic New Moon Eclipse forces us to integrate fragments of our personality, along with characteristics we attempt to deny. Its misalignment with Dark Lord Pluto symbolizes our uncomfortable relationship with our unconscious minds. An unexpected shift in our love lives gives us a fresh start, setting us up to embark on a new, bold journey of the heart. With great flair, a lively Leo Solar Eclipse exposes its brilliant light on any shadows that are darkening our perceptions of love. Meanwhile, the New Moon Eclipse misaligns with powerful Pluto now, reminding us to be more conscious about how we live and how we love. We must concentrate on certain activities today and let others pass without much notice. Setting priorities is critical since the Moon snuck into practical Virgo last night at 11:58 pm EDT. Although we gain efficiency by filtering out extraneous noise, we could do it so well that we miss an important event. We are able to balance the old ways with the new technology while the Moon completes a grounded Grand Earth Trine with Uranus and Saturn. It's not always easy for us to make romance a priority, but now that the Moon has just checked into sensible Virgo, we realize we must map out our passionate plans with more intention than we've used in the past. It's good to focus on love, but we must also do it in a balanced way so that we don't neglect some other important aspects of our lives. It's part of the great balancing act that makes life and love so rewarding when we get it right. An all-too-familiar theme resurfaces today, requiring us to make crucial choices between real-world responsibilities and our captivating dreams. Insistent Mars retrogrades back into industrious Capricorn for a one-month remedial program on taking care of business. We may be confronted with loose ends on a project we thought was already done. The picky Virgo Moon helps us focus our thoughts, but her opposition to surreal Neptune fuels our fantasies. Sexy fantasies wash over us with great emotional power, however, we may have to increase our focus to deal with realities that cannot be ignored today. Stubborn Mars is retrograding back into busy Capricorn for the next month, showing us that balancing our love lives with our work lives is crucial or we'll end up dropping some balls that we're trying to juggle at this moment. The persnickety Virgo Moon gives us a jolt of organizational prowess, but since she also opposes nebulous Neptune, our reverie will simply not shut down no matter what.  Our attention turns from our personal desires to the needs of others as the Moon enters diplomatic Libra at 12:56 am EDT. Although it can be challenging to make the shift, we actually derive pleasure from helping others. But a Moon-Saturn square can slow us down, especially if a formidable person lacks confidence in our abilities. Luckily, the Moon hooks up with friendly Venus, enabling us to use our charm to soften the resistance we may encounter. A conscious attitude shift will do wonders for our love lives today as the Moon arrives in optimistic Sagittarius just in time to fuel us with positivity. We must watch out not to overindulge, however, because a magnetic Venus-Jupiter sextile can amplify our passions to a point of discomfort. Summer's romantic bounty continues to grow as the Sun seductively slips into lively Leo, creating conditions for sexy excess. We may need to face familiar fears that inconveniently resurface today. However, reconsidering our priorities doesn't mean we're automatically rewriting our game plan. In fact, we're more likely to defend our conclusions in the face of adversity while the strategic Libra Moon squares powerful Pluto. Thankfully, a supportive Sun-Moon sextile rides to the rescue, rewarding us with a deep inner peace if we're willing to tackle a tough subject. Fears about a current romantic connection rise to the top of our emotions today, and they need to be faced pronto. We're not necessarily going to turn our love lives upside-down just because our perspectives are changing, but since the discreet Libra Moon squares potent Pluto at this time, we're ready to defend our passionate plans and create a new paradigm of positivity for our relationships. A faithful Sun-Moon sextile defends our dreams and desires, endowing us with inner peace so that we could tackle challenging matters of the heart with grace. We can be very productive today if we consciously limit our thinking. Thankfully, we're able to concentrate more effectively once the Moon shifts into penetrating Scorpio at 4:54 am EDT. Nevertheless, we still may run hot and cold as passions create unexpected attractions and simultaneously present new obstacles. The Moon's tense opposition to irrepressible Uranus won't let any of us sit on the sidelines when the cosmic opportunities are so bright. Focusing on the nitty-gritty details of life will be easier once the Moon moves into deep Scorpio today. Despite this positive cosmic forecast, we may still have to contend with passion and emotions that flow in and out of our hearts at this moment. When it comes to our love lives, Lunau00e2u20acu02dcs stressful opposition to undeniable Uranus will make double sure that we are making the most out of our fervent opportunities and passionate plans. Being a wallflower just won't cut it right now. Our feelings lift us to the highest mountain tops or drag us to the bottom of the ocean today when the Scorpio Moon aligns with excessive Jupiter. We may feel defenseless and unable to make changes, even if we know what to do. Luna's flowing trine to inspirational Neptune creates a feedback loop that amplifies unrealized fantasies. Fortunately, we can regain control of our lives by creating healthy boundaries and insisting that they be respected. Emotional fluctuations will be a veritable roller-coaster for us today, especially if we're involved in dramatic love life circumstances at this moment. It's all down to the alignment between the Scorpio Moon and ginormous Jupiter, and for a while, we may feel unable to make decisions or big changes, at least until we get a grip on our up-and-down feelings. Luna's sweet trine with nebulous Neptune may keep us stuck in our romantic reverie, but soon we'll become grounded again, allowing us to get back on track. Words flow freely today as congenial Mercury creates a cooperative sextile with charming Venus. Interpersonal relationships are blessed by ease of communication. However, there are subtler energies at play now; something exciting and unusual could occur without warning. But the weird vibes may also be tied to trickster Mercury's direct turn tomorrow. Luckily, the Moon's shift into outspoken Sagittarius at 12:44 pm EDT brings renewed confidence. Communication between you and your loved one may come more easily than ever before. However, it may be what's not being said that brings the real magic today. A surprising revelation may be coming your way -- but what kind of path will that lead you and your lover down? That remains to be seen, but as long as you keep the lines of communication open, you and your sweetie will be able to manage it and possibly come out stronger in the end because of it.  Slow motions stir the cosmic soup today, but we may encounter abrupt change here on Earth. Gas giants Jupiter and Neptune lock into a magical trine that carries our dreams to the distant edges of space and time. Meanwhile, the adventurous Sagittarius Moon calls us to stretch the envelope even more. Although mischievous Mercury ends its retrograde period, satisfaction is elusive for a few more days while the Winged Messenger regains its speed. If you're struggling a bit in love right now, you've got to stop forcing things. Having hope is great, but having set expectations of exactly how things should turn out will likely leave you disappointed. Loosen your grip on your current situation and be open to some surprises -- things could actually turn out even better than you'd hoped, if you'll let them. Love happens when and how you least expect it. We might struggle to find a sustainable pace today, but it doesn't come easily at first. Thankfully, the optimistic Sagittarius Moon forms a sweet trine to the heartfelt Leo Sun, inspiring an I-can-do-it attitude. Additionally, the future seems closer now that cerebral Mercury is moving direct. Although there may be minor frustrations, we're unwilling to settle for less than excellence. There is a lot to do and we can't wait to get started. It might be challenging to get the rhythm back into your love life since Mercury started moving direct, but that's not for a lack of determination. The ambitious Sagittarius Moon forms a sweet trine with the loving Leo Sun, inspiring you to set a positive, proactive pace for your relationship and quest for love. This is your opportunity to take the lessons you've learned over the past few weeks and put them to work for your romantic endeavours. Although our inflated visions of progress run into roadblocks today, these temporary obstructions are only meant to give us a chance to improve on our plans. The Moon's shift into ambitious Capricorn at 12:00 am EDT sets a serious tone for the day, and her rendezvous with taskmaster Saturn requires us to work hard. But we may reconsider our goals as an awkward Sun-Mars misalignment makes it challenging to know where to direct our intentions. Any frustrating obstacles that we encounter along our path to love will be a hidden opportunity to greatly improve matters of the heart today. The ambitious Capricorn Moon colludes with serious Saturn, showing us how important our efforts can be to make our romantic relationships more positive and resilient against stress right now. An uncomfortable Sun-Mars misalignment could prove challenging, but will, in the end, help us focus our energies and realign our passionate spirits. We are highly motivated to produce tangible results today with four planets moving through strategic Capricorn. Establishing goals early in the day helps to create the structure we need to measure our progress. However, we may be forced to stand up for our beliefs when the emotional Moon runs into ruthless Pluto. Nevertheless, adapting our plans to reality could save the day while fanciful Venus forms an awkward connection with idealistic Neptune. Love relationships get a boost from the cosmos as four planets playfully congregate in consequential Capricorn today. However, once the moody Moon bumps up against powerful Pluto, we may be inclined to be pushy about our stubborn agendas or double-down on our emotional or physical needs. Being more gentle and spontaneous within our love connections can be the elixir to fix what troubles our hearts while romantic Venus creates an uncomfortable connection with quixotic Neptune now.  Authentic living includes being honest in all interactions. The Sun's shift into exacting Virgo encourages us to fine tune reality to see how small actions can produce significant consequences. The Moon's shift into intellectual Aquarius at 12:55 pm EDT blesses us with the mind power necessary to put all the disparate pieces into place. However, an erratic Moon-Uranus square introduces tools to help us break free from the drudgery of routine. Today's cosmic homework is to live and love authentically through all of our most avid romantic interactions. Even the tiniest of changes can be epic within our relationship world at this moment. Intellectually speaking, we get a real boost from the Aquarius Moon, helping us see separate pieces of our passionate puzzles. Romantic routine is a no-no as a spontaneous Moon-Uranus square guides us to shed pointless habits that no longer resonate with our goals and dreams for love. Bumping into our personal limitations might seem like a serious wake-up call today. The brilliant Aquarius Moon prompts us to remember a variety of unrealized dreams as if they are each possible. But the Moon's opposition to Mercury and square to Jupiter encourage us to go too far. However, a Sun-Chiron misalignment reminds us that it's quite human to fall short of our own expectations. Still, it's easier to forgive someone else than ourselves. As we collide into a personal wall holding us back from our romantic desires, we will be inspired by the daring Aquarius Moon to jump right over it today. And yet, Luna's opposition to Mercury, plus a square with generous Jupiter lure us into believing anything is possible. We must still take a lesson from a Sun-Chiron misalignment that reminds us to use common sense before embarking on an overly ambitious agenda in our love lives right now. We are stepping into a magical day that supernaturally suspends us between the inertia of a stuck situation and the healthy pursuit of change. Contradictions are easily contained by the stabilizing Grand Earth Trine because of the superconductive connection between authoritative Saturn and rebellious Uranus. Meanwhile, the willful Sun harmonizes with these apparently opposite energies, all but ensuring steady personal development. Love gets a magical boost from the cosmos today as we finally get unstuck from a romantic kerfuffle that's been driving us batty lately. A super-chill Grand Earth Trine looks over a superconductive link between serious Saturn and unpredictable Uranus, creating excellent conditions for clear communication in our love relationships. Opposing energies are present but we can hold our ground to ensure we don't lose the progress we've gained. There's no limit to the amount of change that can occur in just one day. We might be lulled into complacency when the Moon enters idyllic Pisces at 1:32 am EDT, but the gentle vibes won't last. The Pisces Full Moon at 7:56 am marks a dynamic turn of events as our fantasies flow into the real world. A tumultuous Venus-Pluto square pits individual rights against the needs of the community. Solutions are elusive while trickster Mercury is in the mix. Idyllic vibes of change and magic metamorphosis are palpable in our love lives today thanks to the Pisces Full Moon's attempts to transform our romantic fantasies into reality at this time. We may find ourselves torn between our sexy, selfish pursuits and our commitments to the community at large right now thanks to an angsty Venus-Pluto square in the cosmic mix. Tricky Mercury is still creating cosmic trouble, making answers to our passionate questions hard to come by. Warrior Mars turns direct today, ending its two-month retrograde period and its siege on progress. The Pisces Moon may cloud our view, but we'll probably feel different right away, even if it's a few days before we start seeing measurable gains. A creative Mars-Jupiter quintile brings optimism into the equation. Although we might encounter unpleasant resistance early in the day, we can hear the chimes of freedom ringing as evening approaches. Mighty Mars finally turns direct again, allowing us to make significant progress in our love lives. It will take a few more days to notice the cosmic shift, but at this moment the Pisces Moon may attempt to blur our perspectives about romance. We feel hopeful that we can regain momentum thanks to a creative Mars-Jupiter quintile in the mix. All in all, the day will end with a feeling of emotional freedom that we haven't felt in our love lives for a long time. Overextension leads to overcompensation as the day unfolds. Clever Mercury's creative square to bountiful Jupiter encourages us to turn tiny molehills into big mountains. The Moon's shift into enterprising Aries at 12:35 pm EDT gives us cosmic permission to undertake nearly anything we can imagine. But not everything can be made real. Dreams are significant, not because of how they encode potential, but because of what we eliminate as unrealistic. We may be helpless against turning a small romantic tangle into a giant knot in our love lives today thanks to mighty Mercury's creative square to gigantic Jupiter. Our imaginations are in overdrive at the moment, getting even more sexy fuel from the adventurous Aries Moon. Dreams tend to veer on the tangible side, because we don't want to swoon over love that isn't realistic right now. Although the weight of six planets in practical earth signs enables most of us to keep our feet planted firmly on the ground, this wave of sensibility will not last. We might compensate with overly cautious behavior as the steadfast Taurus Moon opposes excessive Jupiter and trines relentless Pluto. However, no one will win an argument because our fixed emotions are confronted by the facts when the Moon squares logical Mercury in arrogant Leo. Sense and sensibility are the current themes in our love lives today thanks to six planets parked in commonsense earth signs. The tenacious Taurus Moon opposes giant Jupiter and trines powerful Pluto at this time, making us act with trepidation or even fear in our romantic relationships. Once the Moon squares mental Mercury and proud Leo, facts will trump feelings and make us all face reality. We mustn't lose sight of our ultimate romantic goal to maintain peace and harmony right now. A fresh breeze brings a wave of new ideas once the Moon shifts into intellectual Gemini at 4:01 am EDT. We are less pragmatic now and more interested in how people can connect by exchanging information. Although it's easy to be distracted by the Gemini Moon's insatiable curiosity, the practical Virgo Sun filters out excessive noise so we can focus on the most useful information. Ultimately, analysis of the data enables us to make wise decisions. With all your inspired thoughts on love today, the Moon's arrival in brilliant Gemini is the ticket to everything new and exciting. But Luna will also bring distracting energy while the focused Virgo Sun keeps us pointed at our passionate targets, allowing us to gather our wits just in time to make an important relationship decision. While it may be challenging, our goals must be to stay tethered to the ground, even if our sexy spirit is soaring. We play well with others while the reflective Moon visits friendly Gemini; differences of opinion just don't seem to matter as much. We're more congenial now, even if we don't agree with someone's conclusion on an important subject. Chatty Mercury's cooperative sextile with valuable Venus inspires us to see the better side of nearly anyone. Nevertheless, we still may feel limited by an authority figure when jolly Jupiter runs into stern Saturn. We won't push too hard to win an argument in our love relationships today because we're just naturally diplomatic while the sensitive Moon embraces congenial Gemini. We may not even agree with our significant others on an important issue, but somehow loquacious Mercury's comfy sextile with harmonious Venus inspires us to be positive in every single interaction we have with our paramours right now.  We may withdraw from social activities today for a variety of reasons. The Moon's entry into sensitive Cancer at 8:03 am EDT can turn the volume on reality so high that even a whisper sounds like a shout. Additionally, it may seem as if someone is purposefully blocking our path. The Moon's tense opposition to hard-nosed Saturn makes us want to stay home and hide from the harshness of the world. However, we gain strength by confronting our fears. Our ability to process intense emotions surrounding love and romance may be limited today, causing us to want to add a layer of padding around our sensitive hearts. The delicate Cancer Moon can make us want to temporarily withdraw from big relationship issues, especially if the person we're seeing isn't playing by our rules right now. Luna's stressful opposition to stern Saturn tempts us to run and hide from our fears at the moment, but facing them will ultimately benefit tricky matters of the heart. We don't know what to do with our persistent uncertainty, especially if we must defend our actions against someone's criticism. Mercury's awkward alignment with warrior Mars makes it difficult to know when to hold and when to fold. The self-protective Cancer Moon tempts us to employ passive-aggressive behavior as a survival strategy. But Mercury's late-night shift into conscientious Virgo reminds us that we can successfully speak truth to power. As you try to make a heavy relationship situation lighter, you may end up stumbling over yourself or temporarily making the circumstances worse. Don't worry. You'll get your mojo back and it'll come just in time for you and your sweetheart to connect when both of your emotional tanks are full and your hearts are ready to engage. Embrace your passionate feelings no matter what they are. They reflect the beautiful love inside of you. Practicality reigns supreme now that cerebral Mercury buzzes in analytical Virgo, forming a Grand Earth Trine with ingenious Uranus and karmic Saturn. The stabilizing influence of this configuration is exact tomorrow morning, but it is more significant while Saturn begins to release the past as it completes its retrograde cycle today. Additionally, the Moon's shift into extroverted Leo at 9:54 am EDT motivates us to put our common sense to good use. We must find ways to apply common sense to our unusual love life circumstances today. Mental Mercury moves through tactical Virgo, creating a Grand Earth Trine with unpredictable Uranus and fateful Saturn, showing us ways to balance out our passionate perspectives with rational and thoughtful analysis. We can lean on logic even while still being true to our hearts thanks to the Moon's transition into lively Leo right now. We can tell that the restraints on the real world are loosening as six planets in sensible earth signs give way to the Sun's opposition to surreal Neptune. The magic of fantasy replaces the efficiency of sound analysis and logic. We can't look to others for a reality check now because everyone just seems to encourage our dreams instead. Meanwhile, we keep the charade of confidence alive while the proud Leo Moon reminds us that the show must go on. Taking a big, bold chance on romance can often be the perfect way to up the ante in matters of the heart. Today, however, a grandiose gamble has the potential to simply over-complicate your love connection at the wrong moment, but you still have the option to take the leap if you choose to. But if you do decide to dive right in, do your absolute best to eyeball your landing spot: Your intuition is working well, but timing and attitude will help make the next move you make a winner.  We continue to vacillate between rational and irrational perspectives as we land back on Earth. The Moon's shift into fastidious Virgo at 10:29 am EDT reminds us to focus on the most useful strategies. Luna's Grand Earth Trine with outrageous Uranus and cautious Saturn empowers us to balance innovation with prudence. But the head and the heart might not cooperate while accommodating Venus and demanding Mars are locked in a contentious square. Shining your bright light on someone special to you takes energy and may be challenging if you're feeling an emotional deficit for such activities today. It may be time to take a psychic personal day! Meditate on anything you might have said or done that you'd like to make amends for, and then offer your open heart to the one you love in an act of compassionate humility. You're recharging your passion batteries the more in touch you get with your romantic purpose right now. We enter uncharted emotional territory when seductive Venus slips into secretive Scorpio this morning. We might resist the change of venue at first, but the sensible Virgo New Moon at 2:01 pm EDT encourages common sense over complex schemes as we seek satisfaction. Nevertheless, we may take an uncalculated risk when the willful Sun illuminates irrepressible Uranus. Trusting our intuition makes sense as long as we think about the consequences first. The great morphing of our romantic circumstances begins as voluptuous Venus sashays into surreptitious Scorpio at this time. The commonsense Virgo Moon helps us resist change in our love lives by helping us simplify our relationship plans right now. But once the stubborn Sun has a mind-meld with rebellious Uranus, our urge to be impulsive about our actions will become too hot to handle. Let's wise up before we get ourselves into a passionate pickle of our own making today. We may feel further from our feelings once the Moon settles into objective Libra at 11:19 am EDT. Her uncomfortable square with sobering Saturn requires us to realistically assess our weakest points so we can strengthen our chances of achieving our goals. But a fuzzy Mars-Neptune connection pulls the rug of reality out from under our feet. We realize we can't go back to the safety of the past when pushy Mars enters progressive Aquarius. The Libra Moon offers a cosmic patina of protection between us and our intense emotions surrounding a romantic situation today, allowing us to manage matters of the heart with grace and courage. Luna's anxious square with serious Saturn means we must pay close attention to our passionate plans and make sure we're not being unrealistic about them. A nebulous Mars-Neptune connection keeps us on our toes instead, while mighty Mars in forward-thinking Aquarius reminds us that the comfort of a past relationship needs to evolve if it's to make it back to the future. An expressive alignment between the hardworking Virgo Sun, buoyant Jupiter and penetrating Pluto empowers us to plumb to the depths of our emotions. We can retrieve the gifts of remembrance and reframe our perspectives with newly discovered facts. Nevertheless, we may mislead ourselves when deceptive Neptune sneaks into the picture. An early evening Moon-Pluto square demands our active emotional participation, so we can't remain stubbornly detached. The industrious Virgo Moon, jumping Jupiter and passion-filled Pluto team up to prod us to do some good old-fashioned soul-searching about matters of love and romance today. Let's be mindful of the cosmic tricks fuzzy Neptune likes to play as we try to assemble our thoughts and feelings, but we mustn't let this dissuade us from the probing reverie required to get a grip on our current love relationship circumstances. A thoughtful Moon-Pluto square inspires us to stay the course right now. Just when we think we've fallen down the rabbit hole as far as possible, the bottom gives way to reveal more layers of unexplored realms. The suddenness of change is exciting when alluring Venus opposes astonishing Uranus. Meanwhile, a transformational Jupiter-Pluto sextile adds meaning to every experience. The Moon's entry into mysterious Scorpio at 2:14 pm EDT stirs up complexity while a Venus-Saturn sextile brings much-needed stability. We mustn't blink because romance changes on a dime today thanks to magnetic Venus opposing curious Uranus, but luckily, that's just the way we like it! Everything is evolving in our hearts and we find ourselves digging deep for answers down in the depths of our passionate cores. Once the Moon arrives at the doorstep of surreal Scorpio with a Venus-Saturn sextile on its heels, we'll find more grounded energy to help us keep our sexy circumstances stable. We may be lost in idealistic thoughts today as the borders of Fantasyland stretch farther than our eyes can see. Logical Mercury is visiting analytical Virgo where it helps us figure out nearly anything, but its current opposition to indefinite Neptune stymies rationality. Meanwhile, our emotions gain strength while the reflective Scorpio Moon heads toward a conjunction with overconfident Jupiter, giving our passions a healthy life of their own. Romantic reverie hits the big time today as we start pushing the envelope on our fantasy musings throughout the day. Quicksilver thinking seems natural while mental Mercury merges with thorough Virgo, although a simultaneous opposition to dubious Neptune promises that passions will overrule logic. Emotions thrash onto the shores of our relationships while the liquid Scorpio Moon conjuncts giant Jupiter, amplifying our love as loudly as possible. We are mentally agile as clever Mercury grows closer to the Sun every day. But our logic may not be as sound as we prefer while Mercury forms anxious aspects with confrontational Mars and unconventional Uranus. Meanwhile, the shrewd Scorpio Moon enters Sagittarius at 8:44 pm EDT, prompting us to become more adventurous. Thankfully, frictionless lunar aspects grace the day, tempting us to surrender control and ride along with the currents. Thanks to mental Mercury moving toward the Sun today, our thoughts are nimble as we consider the best way to move a romantic relationship forward. The thought of upping the adventure quotient with our paramours seems like the ticket to paradise now that the smooth Scorpio Moon arrives in Sagittarius. No sense in resisting the passionate path that we find ourselves on, especially with such mellow lunar aspects in the cosmic mix right now.  Stepping in time with the cosmic drums can be quite challenging today because we are being simultaneously pulled toward the very large and very small. On one hand, we seek clarity on the big picture while the Sagittarius Moon encourages the exploration of new places and ideas. On the other hand, cerebral Mercury is visiting detail-oriented Virgo, motivating us to strive for perfection. Potent Pluto's presence intensifies our core positions. Somehow we find a way to simultaneously focus on minute details as well as the big picture of our love lives today. The wise Sagittarius Moon inspires us to up the adventure quotient in our romantic relationships, but mental Mercury in thorough Virgo makes sure we have a back-up plan in case we can't sell our lovers on our desirous dreams and sexy schemes. Still, with powerful Pluto reinforcing our passionate perspectives, we'll keep aiming for exactly what we want because that feels like our most important job right now. We are still caught in a complex dilemma that pits our logical heads against our illogical hearts today. Thankfully, a friendly Mercury-Jupiter sextile makes it much easier now to resolve the tension by simply making a choice without further ado. Granted, we might need some direction when an awkward Mercury-Venus alignment changes our minds down the road, but the sooner we pick a path and state our intentions out loud, the quicker we can start. Logic and emotion duke it out for superiority as we grapple with a challenging romantic dilemma today. With any luck, we'll be able to make a quick decision about a relationship issue thanks to the cosmic assistance coming from a harmonious Mercury-Jupiter sextile. We may still veer this way or that way for a spell, especially with an unusual Mercury-Venus alignment making us question our choices, but by uttering our thoughts aloud, we will gain a clear perspective about important matters of the heart right now. How fitting that this back-to-work Monday is blessed by the responsive Moon entering ambitious Capricorn at 7:07 am EDT. Unfortunately, responding to authority is harder to justify if that very same person was previously encouraging us to follow a totally different set of priorities. By paying attention, we can feel our way through a series of situations that defy a solution. Whatever we decide, we should start today and begin slowly. Today's Capricorn Moon is a cosmic boon to our love relationships as we attempt to sort through a situation that, up until now, has proven impossible to solve. We don't do well when a power struggle weighs down our love connections, especially if we've had difficulties seeing eye-to-eye lately. This is the day to slowly begin to move toward cooperation, and being openhearted, kind and caring will go a long way toward helping us find common emotional ground with the ones we love. Assuming that anything can happen doesn't mean that everything we think will automatically manifest. Nevertheless, an irrepressible Mars-Uranus square is the third one in a series that began in May, manifesting stress, but also releasing it through unexpected channels. We may have a chance to move through resistance before it solidifies even more. Meanwhile, the practical Capricorn Moon allows us to take a risk -- as long as it's calculated one. A buoyant Mars-Uranus square may bring unexpected stress into our love lives today but it can also give us an opportunity to mend anything that's not working right with our paramours. There is every chance that we can fend off more relationship challenges by being extra practical thanks to the Capricorn Moon's presence in the cosmic forecast right now. We are inspired to take a romantic risk and see what happens when we trust in the universe to help us manage matters of the heart.  Rivers of consciousness flow through us today and there's no reason to hold back our creative self-expression. However, our actions may be easier for us to handle than they are for our supporters. The truth is people could talk about our behavior without ever really knowing anything about our motivation. The Moon's move into futuristic Aquarius at 7:51 pm EDT shifts our attention from taking small determined steps to boldly leaping into the future. Romantic moments will be more exciting if we put the power of our creative minds behind our expressions of love. The Moon's arrival in visionary Aquarius inspires us to look at what's possible with our significant others: If we've been careful about moving a love relationship forward lately, taking small steps with a significant other, it's now time to step up our efforts and leap with courage into tomorrow's passionate potential. People seem eager to discuss their innovative ideas and plans for the future, but we might try to avoid overly emotional subjects while the Moon is visiting rational Aquarius. Although we can't micromanage a conversation, there's no reason to postpone a big discussion now that Mercury the Communicator is aligned with the analytical Virgo Sun. Talking directly from our gut doesn't give our brains a chance to use logic to sidestep our feelings. When our lovers ask pointed questions about the future, we usually respond instantly and embrace an open exchange. Today, however, with the Moon's arrival in sagacious Aquarius, emotionally-charged conversations about relationship issues can be a challenge. Luckily, multiloquent Mercury aligned with the brilliant Virgo Sun gives us the communications boost we need to put our thoughts and feelings into words. Intuitive revelations are the most reliable ones right now, especially when it comes to current matters of the heart. Paradoxically, the cosmic quietness can be the source of our anxiety today. Since there are no significant planetary aspects, our minds have more room in which to explore our emotional, spiritual, and mental proclivities. Nevertheless, we tend to express what's tried and true, rather than what is experimental. Thankfully, the intelligent Aquarius Moon won't allow us to slack off and her numerous creative connections empower us to swing into action. Cosmic quietude can be a nice break, but given our current love life circumstances, we may be more comfortable with a bit more excitement today. We finally have extra time and space to ponder the passionate potential in our romantic worlds, especially if we're eager to take our love connections to the next level. The wise old Aquarius Moon will keep us on our toes to make sure we don't miss our chance for romance by prompting us to act instead of sit on the sidelines right now.  We may be surprised by the vividness of our fantasies when the Moon slips into dreamy Pisces at 8:26 am EDT. We want to explore our imaginations instead of dealing with real-world issues. Logical Mercury in accommodating Libra prompts us to seek that ever-elusive balance between fact and fiction. Meanwhile, the Sun shifts into fair-minded Libra at 9:45 pm, marking the Autumnal Equinox and reminding us that harmony can be as important as the truth. The longer you date someone, the more you learn about them. Today you may not enjoy some of the emotional reflections coming at you, especially because you may not have been planning to delve into such challenging relationship matters at this moment. Thankfully, the Sun entering Libra and marking the transformational Autumnal Equinox gives you a good opportunity to see relationship matters clearly right now. The cosmos comes to the rescue by greasing our thoughts wherever they get stuck today. Although the mystical Pisces Moon joins spiritual Neptune, inviting us to dream, we can't escape our responsibilities. A conceptually restrictive Mercury-Saturn square impedes progress until we untangle the knots of our intellectual threads. Thankfully, new ideas create direct routes to our ambitious goals when clever Mercury harmonizes with action-hero Mars. We have no trouble clearly defining our romantic goals right now, especially if we've struggled with relationship concerns lately. We yearn to dream about ways to fuel our passionate plans while the pondering Pisces Moon connects with esoteric Neptune. However, an anxious Mercury-Saturn square may create temporary complications, inspiring us to double our efforts. And yet, with mental Mercury harmonizing macho Mars, we can't help but trust our potent notions of what's possible in matters of the heart right now. Relationships may be challenged when we flex our muscles of independence. An awkward connection between the partnership-oriented Libra Sun and individualistic Uranus creates tension. It's nearly impossible to see beyond our personal filters when the Moon blasts into self-willed Aries at 7:03 pm EDT. Nevertheless, the ardent Aries Full Moon occurs at 10:52 pm, reminding us to balance our own needs with those of our friends, family, and the community. Romantic relationships are in focus today as we rely on the abundant Aries Full Moon to help us balance tricky matters of the heart. We seek more personal space and broader independence but we also don't want to rock the proverbial boat, especially while an uncomfortable connection between the devoted Libra Sun and emancipated Uranus exists. Our struggle is real right now, but so is our passionate persistence to come up with an arrangement that works for everyone involved.  The enthusiastic Aries Moon fires up our dreams with visions of success, but frustration quickly replaces excitement. We can't sustain our belief that satisfaction is nearby if we run into obstacles. Unfortunately, the Sun's dynamic square to constrictive Saturn is a reality check that manifests setbacks where our strategies are too vague. Honing our skills, reexamining our options, and tying up loose ends enable us to quickly get back on track. Today's Aries Moon amps our passionate visions of love, but there will be moments of tension that we will have to navigate with care today. The brilliant Sun creates a dynamic square to obsessive Saturn, raising the chances of relationship frustration, especially if we are not being clear about what we desire right now. This is a moment to review our options and move closer toward living and loving with total authenticity. We are gradually released from Saturn's authority today as we slowly gain momentum. However, nothing seems to be moving fast enough to satisfy the impetuous Aries Moon. There are no long-terms plans now; we want everything in the present moment. Nevertheless, our personal perspectives are minimized when the Moon squares obsessive Pluto in calculating Capricorn. We can learn a lot about ourselves if we're willing to adhere to the social rules. There may be pressure building in a passionate relationship, but this is an energizing vibe between you and your sweetheart and it's reshaping your spirit today! You're eager to move this magical love connection along more quickly and your amped up attitude is definitely driving things forward with the one you love at this moment. There is a mild dose of trepidation because of the unknown changes unfolding right now, but for the most part, you're feeling joy and sexy spontaneity -- and it just keeps getting better! A new wave of determination carries us toward our goals once the Moon plods into pragmatic Taurus at 3:15 am EDT. Paradoxically, everything might seem uncertain just a few hours later when the receptive Moon is struck by the lightning of Uranus, releasing buried tensions. The energy of the moment appears unstable but our progress is steady. Thankfully, a smooth Sun-Mars trine assures us we will have whatever energy we need to finish our projects. Take ample time to review your budget today, particularly if you want to feel nice and relaxed when you next see your paramour. If you're in a long-term partnership, this financial scrutiny can and should be done as a team. You and your significant other may have to come to grips with certain realities that affect your bottom line, but together you can solve any issue, even a money woe. Your wisdom and pragmatism will undoubtedly be a boon for your love relationship at this time. We are given a short-lived opportunity to access a higher level of consciousness today. Glimpses of reality from other dimensions leak into our mundane world as Uranus the Awakener, Pluto the Lord of the Underworld, and the radiant Sun form three points on a complex seven-pointed star. We can't help but slip into magical realms where anything can happen. We are so clear about our motives that we can set impossible goals and achieve them anyhow. Is there a way to be with someone you love and yet be totally free? Do the confines of love eventually weigh it down? Can you be true to yourself and still be committed to someone else? These questions and others like it fill your heart and soul today as you ponder the most passionate questions you've ever asked yourself. You are taking the initial steps to a bold and new way of living -- and loving right now, and there's no way to turn back the clock to how things were before this moment. We won't have much to show for a busy morning if we are bouncing around with the jittery Gemini Moon. But we can shut out the external noise by turning our attention inward once Luna swims into self-protective Cancer at 2:00 pm EDT. A supportive connection from ingenious Uranus prompts us to work smarter rather than harder. However, taking shortcuts will not help us reach our goals because the Moon opposes strict Saturn later in the day. A conversation with your paramour brings the tasty nuances out of a freshly-baked idea and turns it into a blueprint for things to come. You're keeping track of what worked in your love relationships in the past to help you balance out current matters of the heart. You want to spend time with the one you love in ways that make you feel emotionally confident, romantically joyful and physically energized. Anything that adds layers of positivity and contentment to your romantic connection is a good thing right now. Our imaginations can bring solace today, but we can't escape the necessity of honest communication. We might learn something we wish we didn't or we may speak our truth, knowing it could ruffle people's feathers. A conflictive Mercury-Pluto square sets the stage for a war of words. Meanwhile, the sensitive Cancer Moon forms stressful aspects to both planets, magnifying the discomfort while also increasing the potential for positive change. Our creative spirits guide our love lives today, helping us open our hearts when it's time to have a serious conversation with our paramours. An angsty Mercury-Pluto square amps the the potential for fiery interactions in our love relationships, but not necessarily of the romantic variety. Thankfully, a caring Cancer Moon forms stressful aspects to these dueling planets, inspiring us to make positive changes that can help us avoid similar drama in the future.  We may keep to ourselves today, perhaps to process the emotional intensity of recent events. But internalization gives way to outward expression as the Moon shifts from moody Cancer into dramatic Leo at 5:12 pm EDT. Luna's dynamic square to wild Uranus pulls us through our fear of being on stage. Nevertheless, Neptune's presence prompts worry about the unknown. Impulsively, we release our fears, share our dreams and step into the light of awareness. Your heart is as wide as it can be at this moment, bringing you closer to the one you love than you've been in a long time. You're not only feeling close to your paramour in a romantic way, you're starting to feel like you're reaching new levels of understanding. Whether or not this closeness will continue to unfold in this dramatic way is still to be seen. For now, enjoy the extraordinary intimacy of expression, trust and emotion right now. Although everything might seem copacetic on the surface, there may be tempests stirring out of sight. Clever Mercury forms a creative quintile with materialistic Saturn, enabling us to give form to our thoughts. But a series of complex and stressful lunar aspects agitate our emotions which, in turn, feeds into our process of manifestation. Meanwhile, the expressive Leo Moon inspires us to play our cards, whether or not we're fully prepared. We're starting to find it easier to express our most complex emotions to the ones we love, especially while mental Mercury creates a harmonious quintile with serious Saturn today. Several angsty lunar aspects may cause us some emotional upheaval as we tend to challenging matters of the heart right now. We instinctively know to trust the chatty Leo Moon and take a chance on romance right now, even if we haven't a clue how things will pan out just yet. We have a rare opportunity to reexamine our basic values today as charming Venus reverses apparent direction to begin her 42-day retrograde period. Our desires intensify, and we're not satisfied with romantic fluff now because Venus in Scorpio demands full-spectrum love. The past cycles back around as old friends and lovers reappear. Nevertheless, we temporarily raise the bar of acceptability once the Moon enters critical Virgo at 7:19 pm EDT. As the planet of love seemingly reverses course to begin a 42-day retrograde romp, we find ourselves pondering our most precious priorities about love and romance today. Passionate emotions grow stronger as we find ourselves wanting to experience our love relationships in as much cosmic detail as possible, especially given that Venus is in Scorpio at this moment. This is an exceptional opportunity to deepen relationship bonds by clarifying our priorities. There is little time to rest as the efficient Virgo Moon requires us to finish up incomplete tasks. We might worry that we missed the boat now that Venus is in the first full day of her six-week retrograde. Thankfully, we can still make relationship progress, yet it will be slow. Our money won't disappear, though we may need to be more cautious with our budgets. The Moon's opposition to ephemeral Neptune warns us not to fall victim to our fantasies. Cosmic endowments of extra intuition and pragmatism will serve your romantic circumstances perfectly today as you trust in yourself to make the right moves at the right moments. A lover will marvel at your powerful ability to create magic out of thin air, or perhaps get an impossible restaurant reservation. Whether your beautiful bounty of positivity arrives in big or small doses, you're on notice to use it to its maximum potential, particularly to benefit current matters of the heart.  We're optimistic that we can balance our need to do what's right today with our desire to please others. The analytical Virgo Moon concentrates our attention on the details. However, the diplomatic Libra Sun and Mercury seek inroads to improve communication in relationships, especially after the Moon enters Libra at 9:09 pm EDT. The dissonance between the tangible minutiae and our conceptual ideas is exacerbated by a fuzzy Sun-Neptune alignment. If too many obstacles appear along your passionate path today, it may be time to take a cosmic clue and shift into a lower gear for a while. It's not that you cannot move a romantic relationship forward right now, but it could be a prudent move to simply slow things down. Once today turns into tonight, the vibes will be mellower, giving you an opportunity to connect with the one you love in a simple, peaceful way. We can see our mundane lives through an idealistic lens today as the lovely Libra New Moon at 11:48 pm EDT tempts us with utopian visions. Luckily, we realize that many paths lead to the very same place. The New Moon's awkward aspect to imaginative Neptune challenges us to set aside our fantasies to perceive the real world accurately. Although we may be willing to fight for what we think we deserve, we must be strategic in our quest for happiness. The visions of love we see in our mind's eye will be hard to ignore, especially now that the sensual New Moon in Libra invites fiery fantasies into our inner realms. But we must resist the temptation to reside in our reverie for too long because Luna's uncomfortable aspect with nebulous Neptune wants us to grip our relationship reality with both hands. We're motivated to advocate for what we want out of love, but doing it in a pragmatic way is the only real way forward right now. Communication is at the forefront of everything we do today. Interactive Mercury leaves easygoing Libra and sinks into passionate Scorpio this evening, adding a new wave of intensity to our thinking process. However, we can tell that something is different because Mercury forms difficult connections with confusing Neptune and wounded Chiron. Although we might not have enough information at our disposal, we strive to make smart choices, nonetheless. This is the day to have that long-overdue conversation with our significant others. Mental Mercury is bidding liberal Libra a fond adieu and relocates into sensual Scorpio tonight, bringing more emotional intensity into our hearts. We can stay fully aware of what's happening in our love relationships at this moment, thanks to Mercury's anxious connections with esoteric Neptune and wounded Chiron. We yearn to make the best choices in our love lives, even if it means having to take a risk now and then.  Emotions flare, adding stress to relationships once the evocative Moon enters complex Scorpio at 12:09 am EDT. We are quick to express our feelings when the Moon joins forces with messenger Mercury as they oppose unpredictable Uranus. Fireworks continue into the evening while the Moon and retrograde Venus square combative Mars. Four planets in Scorpio indicate that even the most trivial disagreement can erupt without warning into a major struggle. You possess an unusually high amount of charisma and magnetism today. Be careful with your passionate power because even though you feel invincible at this moment, you're not immune to karma and there will always be repercussions to your actions. Supercharge your romantic world with all of your goodness and approach matters of the heart with integrity and a bold, authentic spirit. We might feel as if we're on a runaway train, gaining speed as it heads into a tight curve. The extreme Scorpio Moon conjuncts expansive Jupiter, increasing our confidence, despite the dangers ahead. We must think strategically if we are to harness the building power of the logical Libra Sun's dynamic square to potent Pluto. The negative consequences of being swept up in an emotional melodrama can be avoided with conscious preemptive action. It's time to accept just how much power you really wield in your love relationship today. You have an extraordinary opportunity to channel your brilliant ideas in pragmatic ways, especially if you're eager to make progress toward a passionate goal with your paramour at this time. Try to avoid distractions and give yourself permission to trust your intuition right now, because you're on the way to getting what you want in matters of the heart. Although we may be struggling with emotional upset from an early morning Sun-Pluto square, the overall mood lightens once the Moon flies into inspirational Sagittarius at 5:52 am EDT. Nevertheless, a stabilizing Mercury-Saturn sextile helps to settle our thoughts if we do the work of expressing our feelings, enabling us to release any lingering negativity. Unfortunately, pie-in-the-sky dreaming is not a viable substitute for honest communication. Romantic chaos is not what you seek today, but you'll make an exception for fun and adventure. You're looking for a creative outlet in matters of the heart, and even though you're open to spontaneity, you also want to be large and in charge at this moment. Sure, a physical manifestation of your most passionate emotions would be nice, but your imagination wants to be present in all of the interactions you have with the one you love right now and that's your top priority. Our unrealistic thoughts soar much higher now and our optimism reveals new possibilities. The Sagittarius Moon lights the fuse to the fires of inspiration, burning away previous obstructions and doubts. Meanwhile, the Sun forms a spiritual alignment with visionary Neptune, pulling some of us into a deeper relationship with our creative nature. Turning our dreams into reality is possible, but everything will likely take longer than we think. You may not be ready for the one-eighty that you have to do in your love life, but the shock value will have many positive repercussions today. Instead of focusing on what's problematic in your romantic world right now, figure out how you can use the current transformative energy to manifest something massively awesome with your paramour. Such shake-ups can be a brutal awakening at first, but ultimately they will lead to something exhilarating and real. We begin to grow bored with our unrealized visions. We might not be prepared to let go of a dream too quickly, but we're conscious of wasting time pursuing castles in the sky. The Moon's shift into practical Capricorn at 3:16 pm EDT enables us to revisit our goals, make concrete plans for those within reach, and finally let the others slip away. The Moon joins taskmaster Saturn, demanding that we finish up old business before starting anything new. As tricky as it may be for you to do, it's important for you to ride the waves of your current love life circumstances, no matter where they take you today. You're feeling pumped up about your romantic situation right now, even though you're not sure how things are going to pan out with your paramour going forward. Don't fret or fear, because you're making progress with every moment that passes, even if you're not totally aware of it. Give yourself a pat on the back because you've been managing matters of the heart with grace and wisdom lately. Well done! We are paying close attention to our actions, weeding out those that don't lead to tangible results. The calculating Capricorn Moon helps us determine which path to take on our road to accomplishment. Thankfully, supportive lunar sextiles nudge us closer to our goals. Communication works in our favor while clever Mercury aligns with charming Venus. We can benefit from Venus retrograding in seductive Scorpio as long as we don't manipulate others. Some sleuthing may be required in your love life as you encounter a mysterious situation with your paramour today. You can handle just about anything if you use your cosmically-charged powers of creative communication to bring a definitiveness to your conversations. Let your sweetheart know you like to take charge when the moment calls for it. You're purposefully trusting your heart right now because you know that it will lead you toward a most fulfilling romantic future. The need to achieve a goal clashes with our intentions to treat everyone kindly today. The ambitious Capricorn Moon gains power as she joins potent Pluto. We're impatient when dealing with anyone who stands in our way. But a stressful lunar square to the diplomatic Libra Sun reminds us to consider other people's feelings on our road to accomplishment. Thankfully, an auspicious Moon-Jupiter sextile reveals a path to success that empowers others, too. It's going to be a romantically impatient kind of day while the determined Capricorn Moon aspires to dominate powerhouse Pluto today. Luckily, a tense lunar square to the harmonious Libra Sun will eventually inspire us to consider our lover's feelings, even if we're feeling antsy or over-eager. Channeling our ardent energy in a constructive way will work wonders as a fortuitous Moon-Jupiter sextile positively and peacefully affects our love relationships. We seek new forms of expression today once the Moon shifts into idiosyncratic Aquarius at 3:35 am EDT. Exploring innovative ideas becomes more enticing than sticking to a predetermined plan, even if deviating from our original one decreases efficiency. The Moon's creative squares to wild Uranus and pleasurable Venus elevate excitement over production and spontaneity over logic. Nevertheless, success is ours if we refocus on our original priorities. If you're starting to realize that you're not as independent as you think you are, your confidence in your current love life circumstances may take a hit today. Instead of becoming overwhelmed by this sudden dark cloud, or worse, being resentful of your paramour, own your decisions no matter what. Open your heart and initiate a conversation about expectations and assumptions with the one you love and soon you'll start to understand how to create more mutually acceptable conditions for your love relationship. We may be a bit too pushy when setting boundaries today. Or, we might misplace our anger and inappropriately blame someone for something that is not even remotely their fault. Social awkwardness can be problematic when the heady Aquarius Moon crosses words with argumentative Mercury and clashes swords with warrior Mars. Thankfully, an approaching rendezvous between Mercury and illusory Neptune reveals how our dreams can improve the quality of life. An intentionally peaceful approach to matters of the heart is required to combat the angsty energy brought on by the brainy Aquarius Moon duking it out with mouthy Mercury and macho Mars today. We'll have to soften our statements and relax our radical agenda because otherwise we may not be able to contain our bold or even aggressive dispositions. Thankfully, we can also sense the oncoming connection between Mercury and nebulous Neptune, inspiring us to seek refuge in our calm, romantic reverie. Without mutual respect, a trivial difference of opinion morphs into a major drama today. The friendly Aquarius Moon harmonizes with the socially adept Libra Sun, creating a solid foundation for all types of interpersonal interactions. But an uncomfortable Mercury-Mars square turns molehills into mountains if we put competition over cooperation. Fortunately, finding common ground is easier once the Moon sinks into compassionate Pisces at 4:20 pm EDT. The gregarious Aquarius Moon sings in unison with the affectionate Libra Sun today, allowing us to truly connect with our paramours. But we must beware of the angst-ridden Mercury-Mars square which could incite us to create trouble in passionate paradise at this moment. Treating our sweethearts with respect will keep the harmony flowing, especially once the Moon climbs into the cosmic embrace of powerful Pisces later this afternoon. Putting hidden feelings out on the table can be scary, especially if they open the door to a conversation about a difficult subject. A powerful Venus-Pluto quintile may catalyze a long-overdue discussion that can't be avoided any longer. Although it might be painful at first, the emotionally sensitive Pisces Moon harmonizes with sweet Venus and joins spiritual Neptune, waving a magic wand over the entire situation to soothe any emotional wounds. It's as if a healing salve has been found that will mend any painful issues in our love relationships today. However, we will only be able to help our romantic challenges by facing the things we fear most right now. A potent Venus-Pluto quintile inspires us to initiate a conversation with our paramours that can seem scary at first. But thanks to a gentle Pisces Moon hooking up with amorous Venus and fuzzy Neptune, we will be able to overcome any emotional wounds that are keeping us from fully embracing our joy. Although we may be feeling a bit raw today, we can also make substantial headway in our individual healing process. The psychic Pisces Moon forms supportive aspects with perceptive Mercury, passionate Pluto, and prosperous Jupiter, creating opportunities to bend reality to our liking. Our external world seems particularly fluid, molding itself to conform to our desires. Nevertheless, our influence is not infinite and it's wise to know our limits. The emotional heaviness in our love relationships may be a lot to take at this moment, but if we focus our energies in just the right way, we'll be able to make real progress with our lovers today. The paranormal Pisces Moon creates harmonious aspects with mental Mercury, pioneering Pluto and ginormous Jupiter at this time, allowing us to shape our romantic desires as we see fit. Still, taking a moment to acknowledge our limits now can save us a lot of heartache in the future.  Although we experience cycles within cycles, the emotional tide changes when the Moon blasts into fiery Aries at 2:58 am EDT. We need to break free from the past to start new ventures, but the Sun's awkward connections with wounded Chiron and confusing Neptune make it difficult to navigate the rapidly shifting currents. Thankfully, rational Mercury rides to the rescue, informing us that our commitment to truth will guide our way into the future. We will need to prepare for new emotional waves that wash over our hearts now that the Moon shift into passionate Aries today. In order to begin a fresh chapter in our love lives, we will have to let go of some aspects of our romantic past, but given the Sun's uncomfortable connection with Chiron, the Healer and nebulous Neptune, the changes that are occurring with our paramours may be hard to accept at first. Luckily, with mental Mercury in the cosmic forecast, truth, like fresh cream, will always rise to the top.  Life seems more intense once the Sun shifts into extreme Scorpio at 7:22 am EDT. Self-restraint is challenging; it's easy to get carried away with an idea as the impulsive Aries Moon squares obsessive Pluto. However, it's the suddenness of action and reaction that's most surprising when the Scorpio Sun engages in a take-no-prisoners tug of war with rebellious Uranus. Lightning strikes to release pent-up tension, but when and where is unpredictable. Romantic urges intensify and may become quite an affront to our common sense now that the Sun moves into sexy Scorpio. And with the spontaneous Aries Moon squaring passionate Pluto at this moment, we will be doubly tempted to pursue the most ardent agenda we can. Reactivity and impulsiveness feature prominently in today's cosmic forecast, but keeping the intensity high is how we purposely choose to approach matters of the heart right now. Strange days are upon us as secrets are revealed in an unlikely manner. We expect emotions to settle when the Moon shifts into fixed Taurus at 10:33 am EDT, but her explosive meeting with erratic Uranus sets an unexpected sequence of events into motion. The Taurus Full Moon at 12:45 pm pits the status quo against inevitable change. Although feelings are stretched to the max, we achieve stability when the Moon trines steady Saturn later in the day. We are privy to cosmic clues that can reveal important truths about our love lives right now. We have been waiting for the calm energy of the Taurus Moon, but her angsty connection with unpredictable Uranus can sure make our romantic relationship circumstances turn weird for a while. Emotional intensity will hit its limit early in the day, but with any luck, we'll be able to take things down a notch and calmly connect with our paramours once the Moon trines stable Saturn later in the day. It can take days to recover from an intense experience, but the back-to-basics Taurus Moon supports our swift return to normalcy. Nevertheless, a lunar square to contentious Mars encourages us to jump in for another round before walking away from an unresolved dispute. The Moon's smooth trine to resolute Pluto gives us the emotional stamina to stick with any process that might lead to a peaceful outcome. Still, it's wise to know when to let go. If a recent romantic ordeal still has us feeling shellshocked, today's reassuring Taurus Moon will help us heal and feel more grounded once again. We may also be inclined to continue an intense conversation with our paramours thanks to Luna's smooth trine to powerful Pluto, but we should reconsider diving back into the passionately problematic fray if letting go brings more peace into our love relationships right now. Although we can grow lazy about accomplishing something important, we are more interested in the pursuit of simple pleasures while the Moon finishes up her visit to bucolic Taurus. We know exactly what we want when the Sun conjuncts retrograde Venus in fixed Scorpio. Reconsidering our priorities can lead to altering our direction. Nevertheless, we still grow restless with the status quo once the Moon shifts into changeable Gemini at 3:40 pm EDT. The Moon is packing up and ready to check out of tranquil Taurus today, inspiring us to pursue a more mellow version of our romantic plans than we may have originally had in mind. We may feel romantically restless once the Moon shifts into fickle Gemini later this afternoon, but with some thoughtful introspection and reprioritizing, we'll figure out the best way forward with our paramours. We mustn't be afraid of change; it is inevitable. We might feel a bit lost today, disconnected from the outside world. But, even if we're not in control, significant events that complicate our day are unfolding around us. The adaptable Gemini Moon is helpful as we try to keep up with the evolving circumstances. Thankfully, a late-night Sun-Saturn sextile steadies the energy and gives us solid ground to stand on. Rather than completing a project, just make sure to establish a consistent pace. The germinating Gemini Moon creates awkward aspects and make matters of the heart tricky today. The moment we trust a current romantic scenario, we may feel awkward about it, or totally unable to make sense of matters of the heart. Luckily, the Moon's move into culminating Cancer allows us to realize that change is positive right now.  It's nearly impossible to meet our own expectations for the day while the whimsical Gemini Moon forms a series of awkward aspects. As soon as we gain traction on one path, everything changes and we must begin anew. However, the Moon's entry into watery Cancer at 7:26 pm EDT signals a shift from the intellectual realms into the emotional depths. Sweet lunar alignments with wild Uranus and sexy Venus can stir up romantic desires through the evening. The Gemini Moon's uncomfortable aspects may bring unexpected stress into our love lives today but it can also give us an opportunity to mend anything that's not working right with our paramours. There is every chance that we can fend off more relationship challenges by being extra practical thanks to the Cancer Moon's presence in the cosmic forecast right now. We are inspired to take a romantic risk and see what happens when we trust in the universe to help us manage matters of the heart. Although it may seem as if we are watching a show sponsored by the demonstrative Leo Moon, there is certainly more happening than meets the eye. Our excitement level is high, but we realize that everything is in flux as several planets are changing signs. Thankfully, a smooth trine between beneficent Jupiter and maverick Chiron is a rare opportunity for healing. If we don't bite the bait of fear, we will be able to catch the fish of wisdom. We can bid leftover fears from a recent romantic tangle a fond farewell thanks to a smooth trine between ginormous Jupiter and radical Chiron today. We are jazzed about the potential in our love lives at the moment, and thanks to a handful of planets changing signs at this exact moment, we'll feel this excitement all the way down to our toes. A lively Leo Moon inspires us to engage ourselves freely yet wisely in our romantic relationships right now.  We are not so quick to accept the version of a story that's told by someone else. Nevertheless, an anxious Venus-Neptune connection makes it hard to determine the truth. The Moon's shift into discerning Virgo at 1:47 am EST amplifies our ability to logically analyze the incoming data before accepting them as facts. Luna's subsequent trines to innovative Uranus and realistic Saturn encourage us to embrace the new without throwing out the old. Should someone in our love lives try to pull the wool over our eyes today, we will be ready and willing to call them out on it. The Moon moves into tactical Virgo, helping us understand our perceptions of romance at this moment, especially if we sense confusion in our hearts. Lunar trines to outrageous Uranus and sturdy Saturn inspire change in our romantic worlds, allowing us to welcome new paradigms without abandoning the good progress we've made thus far.  We may be wearing our detective hats today as we each possess a different view of the unfolding story. The precise Virgo Moon prompts us to ask good questions and then separate out the useful answers from the others. But communication is a bit muddled by our preconceived notions while interactive Mercury forms a stressful aspect with impassioned Pluto. It takes extra emotional maturity to avoid arguments that are actually about a struggle for power. Unraveling a romantic mystery will feature prominently in our love lives today as the obsessive-compulsive Virgo Moon motivates us to sleuth around for answers to our most probing questions. Simmering Mercury's anxious aspect with powerful Pluto could temporarily wreak havoc on our ability to communicate clearly with our paramours. Luckily, our desire for understanding and acceptance will ensure we take the high road in our relationships right now. We may appear to be ambivalent about an important issue, but our minds are likely already made up. The Moon slips into rational Libra at 4:00 am EST, reminding us that there are always two sides to any argument. Nevertheless, the willful Sun is in extreme Scorpio, resolutely insisting that we hold tight to our fixed positions. Any uncertainty vanishes midday when Luna squares authoritative Saturn. We'll dig in our heels when pushed into a corner. It can be confusing for our lovers to believe they are having an openhearted conversation with us if we already have made up our minds about a relationship situation. The stubborn Sun moves through serious Scorpio, making us hold on with both hands to what we believe is true for our love lives. It will be extra challenging for us to give in even an inch, because for some reason we are skewed to lock horns at this moment. Luckily, this tricky cosmic confusion will dissipate quickly. A disagreement that surfaces early in the day might prove to reveal information critical to our individual decision-making process. However, explosive interpersonal dynamics settle down by evening. Although an animated conversation about a sensitive issue can get off to a bad start, the objective Libra Moon encourages fair-minded dialogue. Thankfully, a temporary compromise that is acceptable to those who are directly involved is likely. We may disagree with our lovers today but we can learn something from these contrasts that have recently displayed themselves in our love lives. This is especially true if we're ready to make a big decision soon. The fair and balanced Libra Moon inspires us to choose equanimity and openness, dialogue and compassion with our paramours at this time. We have the power and desire to seek solid solutions to our most persistent problems because we're truly committed to bettering our romantic relationships right now. Discerning the truth is tricky while the radiant Sun forms a superconductive trine to imaginative and sometimes deceptive Neptune. However, our dreams can manifest if we're able to stay focused on our vision. It's nearly impossible to remain casual once the Moon shifts into passionate Scorpio at 8:02 am EST. Sparks fly and lives quake when irrepressible Uranus retrogrades back into spontaneous Aries for a remedial course on reclaiming our power. Casual romance isn't anything that feels right to us while the Moon relocates into sultry Scorpio today. We're compelled to search for truth in our love lives while the brilliant Sun forms a superconductive trine to flaky Neptune, even if it's challenging. Boisterous Uranus retrogrades into instinctive Aries, showing us the circuitous path toward reclaiming our passionate power as our romantic dreams yearn to become real right now. A New Moon and a brand-new day can't wipe away a bad decision in a single motion, but we may try anyhow. The surgical Scorpio New Moon at 11:01 am EST cuts out that which is no longer needed. Our survival instincts produce ruthless behavior when fear is in the equation. Still, there is an uncomfortable quincunx between optimistic Jupiter and revolutionary Uranus, reminding us that change may be inevitable, but it still follows its own schedule. A recent romantic dilemma will resurface today, but thanks to the New Moon's clarifying energy, we'll be more than motivated to fix it for good this time. Perhaps we fear falling back into an old pattern that no longer serves our love lives, but the smart Scorpio New Moon is powerful enough to shed light on a solution that will feel real and lasting. Major changes take time, but an evocative quincunx between ginormous Jupiter and riotous Uranus helps us trust in the passionate process. There is a significant clearing of the dark Scorpio energies when buoyant Jupiter moves into the wide-open spaces of Sagittarius for a yearlong visit. Hope returns as we look forward to new possibilities on the horizon. It's challenging to know what to do first since we have so many big ideas once the Moon follows Jupiter into inspirational Sagittarius at 1:59 pm EST. Nevertheless, we must still balance eager anticipation with current reality. A wave of romantic optimism and newfound clarity fills our hearts today as jubilant Jupiter arrives Sagittarius's wide embrace, where it'll remain for a full year. It's important to be balanced about matters of the heart, because we've been known to have overly high expectations in the past, only to become very disappointed when our realities unfold in unexpected ways. Keeping it real when it comes to love is as important as keeping the faith right now. It's all too easy to get swept up in the winds of change while forgetting to take care of business in the present moment. Jupiter, Mercury, and the Moon in visionary Sagittarius draw our thoughts into the distance. We may be giddy with anticipation, fueled by a creative Venus-Mars trine. Nevertheless, how we use this cosmic gift is up to each of us. We can sit back and lazily experience pleasure or engage the future by consciously co-creating it. We're drawn to the notion that our current passionate desires can come true while an imaginative Venus-Mars trine colors the cosmic forecast today. But we're also enamored by the thought of a most fervent romantic future thanks to Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon arriving in farsighted Sagittarius right now. Change seems inevitable in how matters of the heart will unfold, but we know how important this present moment is in helping us shape our realities going forward. We can try to maintain a positive attitude today as our patience runs thin. What begins as an agreeable conversation may take a turn for the worse over an apparently trivial matter. We're easily annoyed while communicator Mercury forms an anxious aspect to pleasant Venus. Thankfully, the optimistic Sagittarius Moon elevates our emotions until she sinks into realistic Capricorn at 10:54 pm EST, prompting us to switch our focus to living responsibly. Before you get to repair a broken situation in your love life, you must first identify what that situation is. Today will give you a good opportunity to make this happen, but you must be committed to listening to your paramour more than speaking at this moment. As soon as you recognize exactly what it is that needs mending right now, you will then know what wise and productive actions to take to improve matters of the heart.  Although this may be a day of rest for some, the ambitious Capricorn Moon reminds us of our unfulfilled obligations. We are not free for carefree play until our chores are finished. The reflective Moon's conjunction with taskmaster Saturn leaves little room for sidestepping commitments. Thankfully, we can sustain the physical energy long enough to see a project through to the end when the Scorpio Sun forms a supportive sextile to relentless Pluto. We're well aware of the fact that we have a promise to keep to someone we love, and our day won't feel complete until we fulfill that promise. The sensitive Moon conjuncts serious Saturn today, helping us understand the importance of following through on our word when it comes to our love lives. The Scorpio Sun's sextile with powerful Pluto endows us with extra passion and energy to make sure we fulfill our lover's wishes, as well as our own.  The cosmos raises the ante on whatever games we play as the calculating Capricorn Moon tangos with mysterious Pluto in a dance on the edge of the dark side. However, we may be entranced by the beauty of this unknowable realm while philosophical Jupiter forms a supernatural biseptile with fantasy-prone Neptune. Although rationality might be an elusive trap for a while, trusting our instincts will likely lead us in the right direction. Something seems to entice us to take bold risks in our love lives now that the clever Capricorn Moon mingles with passionate Pluto today. Jolting Jupiter's ethereal biseptile with dreamy Neptune lures us into discovering new potential in our romantic world, but we won't abandon common sense, even if our temptations push our limits right now. Having faith in our intuitive wisdom will help us check ourselves and not wreck ourselves. It's as if the noose of unfulfilled promises tightens a notch when the uncompromising Scorpio Sun forms a stressful semisquare to karmic Saturn. We have little choice but to deliver the goods, no matter what kind of effort is required. Luckily, the Moon's shift into quirky Aquarius at 10:45 am EST brings a fresh wave of new ideas. Meeting our responsibilities doesn't seem as problematic when a new perspective allows us to reframe the entire picture. One of the biggest challenges in our love lives has been to keep our promises lately, but today we will be able to change all of that. Our cosmic assignment comes from the stubborn Scorpio Sun's strained semisquare to fateful Saturn today, showing us the undeniable benefit of being true to our word. The Moon's arrival in curious Aquarius will infuse us with inspired energy and creative fire with which to fuel our fervent mission of love. Although there are no significant aspects today, we're busy repositioning ourselves to gain advantage in the near future. Tomorrow's highly charged Mars-Uranus sextile prevents us from becoming too complacent. We can see a complex situation clearly while the conceptual Aquarius Moon empowers us to consider the facts without confusing emotional attachments. Additionally, Luna receives support from clever Mercury, enabling us to trust our logic. Love gives a sigh of relief thanks to a lack of cosmic activity today. But soon things will shift as we begin to energetically perceive tomorrow's electric Mars-Uranus sextile. We can suddenly understand nuances within a challenging romantic situation thanks to the astute Aquarius Moon, and her partnership with mental Mercury inspires us to trust our minds over our hearts, at least for a while. Change is at our doorstep and the more we try to avoid facing the future, the more insistent it becomes. But we might not act as expected while assertive Mars forms a cooperative sextile to rebellious Uranus. Radical behavior is likely but somehow, we get away with it as warrior Mars slips into spiritual Pisces. Aggression mellows as it is replaced by compassion once the receptive Moon joins Mars in the sign of the sensitive Fish at 11:41 pm EST. We can get away with romantically radical behavior while mighty Mars sinks into passionate Pisces today. Some of us sense big change happening in our love lives right before our eyes, but this can cause us to act out in emotionally impulsive ways. Luckily, now that the reflective Pisces Moon mingles with Mars, our aggressive impulses and stern stances will move aside soon to make more room for peace. The cosmic baton is passed as Venus the Lover ends her backtracking phase the same day as Mercury the Communicator turns retrograde. Stagnating issues of the heart begin to take flight while words get tangled in misunderstandings and double entendres for the next three weeks. Inflated expectations can bring disappointment down the road. Cutting some slack for ourselves and others helps while the Moon is floating through directionless Pisces. The planet of love tangles with mighty Mercury as it turns retrograde today, bringing cosmic confusion into our romantic worlds for a spell. Romantic tension can actually energize our love connections as we begin to wonder what is the most important thing we value about our love lives is at this time. The Pisces Moon shows us that being a bit lost is not such a bad thing right now, especially if it makes us look for solutions to our passionate problems. The harder we swim, the faster the tides pull on us in the opposite direction. It may appear as if our plans are falling apart, but retrograde Mercury is simply revealing what will require our attention during the next three weeks. Nevertheless, we are in for a few surprises as the Sun forms a fateful connection with erratic Uranus. Unfortunately, clarity remains elusive while the Moon continues her visit to the surreal waters of Pisces. For a minute, Mercury's retrograde energy may cause us to believe there is trouble in romantic paradise. But what's really happening is that we're becoming clued in on what we have to focus on regarding matters of the heart. The Sun's connection with unpredictable Uranus means we may not know what to expect from love and romance at this moment. And the Moon swimming in hypnagogic Pisces inspires us to seek clarity in our relationships, even though it's not an easy thing to do right now. We're off and running once the Moon blasts her way into assertive Aries at 10:55 am EST. We can see what must be done to set our ideas into motion, but the Moon's superconductive trine to expansive Jupiter tempts us to turn manageable projects into grand schemes that stretch the limits of possibility. Fortunately, the Moon's late-night square to taskmaster Saturn is a reminder to keep our goals within reach since there are currently no shortcuts. The ardent Aries Moonu00e2u20acu2122s tasty trine with gigantic Jupiter inflates our romantic desires and relationship expectations today. While this cosmic energy could get us in trouble, a late lunar square to serious Saturn reminds us to keep it real and not get ahead of ourselves. Setting healthy romantic limits may not be the sexiest idea in the world on the surface, but it will definitely help us check ourselves before we wreck ourselves. The cosmos may be setting a trap today by making something look better than it is in reality. The go-getter Aries Moon encourages us to think we can do anything, but an overenthusiastic square between impetuous Mars and buoyant Jupiter fosters a false sense of confidence. Tempering an attitude based on blind optimism with the facts prevents headaches down the road. Karma can be nearly instantaneous when the Moon squares unforgiving Pluto tonight. When it comes to love, we may believe that nothing can go wrong thanks to the amped-up Aries Moon, but an intense square between impulsive Mars and jubilant Jupiter could cause us to be too bold for our own good. A more down-to-earth, thoughtful approach to matters of the heart will help us avoid self-induced trouble, and a lovely lunar square with powerful Pluto keeps us on the right track now. Let thank our lucky stars when the cosmos operates in such a balanced way. Delays can be frustrating if we let them, but there's sufficient opportunity for changing our frame of reference by embracing obstacles as learning experiences rather than fighting them. The Sun's smooth trine to healer Chiron allows us to forgive others for their shortcomings and to soften our own self-criticism, too. Everything can change in an instant when the Moon joins radical Uranus just prior to slipping into steadfast Taurus at 6:42 pm EST. Our passionate impatience grows today, and we'll have to work on holding our romantic horses because it's becoming an obsession! The good news is, this epiphany gives us the psychological boost to roll with the changes and go with the flow. The Sun's healing trine to wounded Chiron inspires us to summon all of our compassion and acceptance towards our lovers right now. Everything changes when the Moon mingles with unpredictable Uranus before bumping into tenacious Taurus, creating conditions for positive transformation in matters of the heart. It might seem as if we can't quite match our actions to our intentions. It's as if the fine-tuning dial on reality jumps from too much to not enough as the Sun misaligns with erratic Uranus in impulsive Aries. We might feel as if we're quickly running out of time because the Sun is in its very last day of Scorpio. Although progress is further stymied by retrograde Mercury, the determined Taurus Moon reminds us that we can still reach our goals. It's not going to be easy realize our romantic desires while the Sun misaligns with unpredictable Uranus in ardent Aries today. Time seems of the essence because the Sun is about to depart Scorpio, making us feel like rushing romance -- which is never a good idea. Loquacious Mercury's retrograde antics can temporarily mess with our passionate progress, although the tenacious Taurus Moon will simply never let us give up on love. Life seems to move faster today once the Sun soars into fiery Sagittarius at 4:01 am EST. Although we may become inspired by a larger cause, satisfaction is elusive; little things bother us as mental Mercury argues with pleasant Venus. Deeper struggles are distracting as aggressive Mars crosses paths with potent Pluto. The stable Taurus Moon shifts into Gemini at 11:10 pm, scattering our emotions prior to the Full Moon very early tomorrow morning. Now that the Sun has shifted into spirited Sagittarius, our love life circumstances feel like they're moving more quickly than usual, even though we are motivated to slow down and be grateful for what we have today. Although mighty Mars criss-crosses with powerful Pluto, we are not going to cave into distracting energy in our romantic worlds. Our emotions need some tender loving care once the true-blue Taurus Moon moves into gentle Gemini, especially given the oncoming Full Moon at dawn tomorrow. A plethora of big ideas lifts our spirits today but reaching our goals isn't as simple as it first appears. The restless Gemini Full Moon at 12:39 am EST is agitated by a stressful square to contentious Mars. Additionally, Luna's tense opposition to the farseeing Sagittarius Sun is exacerbated by grandiose Jupiter, turning the most trivial matters into demanding emergencies. It's nearly impossible to stay focused when everything seems so urgent. We're feeling optimistic about romance thanks to a surge of imaginative ideas fueling our thoughts today. The anticipating Gemini Full Moon creates an uncomfortable square with maddened Mars as well as opposes the sage Sagittarius Sun to create odd energy that may make it difficult to focus on our passionate plans at this moment. With ginormous Jupiter in the cosmic mix, we may suddenly think our tiniest doubts are harbingers of something bad -- but they're not. Let's do our best to stay down to Earth until this angsty energy shifts. Our dreams seem so real that we might confuse them with the actual events in our lives. However, looking back over the past few months helps us gain perspective on our recent lack of progress. Imaginative Neptune ends its retrograde phase today, enabling us to begin to see the difference between facts and fantasies. Meanwhile, the sociable Gemini Moon forms a sweet trine with romantic Venus, encouraging us to talk about our feelings with friends. It seems as if lately our romantic realities pale in comparison to our fantasies, perhaps because we haven't taken enough time to remind ourselves of what we're grateful for. This ends now that creative Neptune comes out of its retrograde phase today, allowing us to be more clear about our passionate potential and the path we plan to take. A bright Gemini Moon forms a sweet trine with passionate Venus, helping us overcome our fear of opening up our hearts. Having a deep chat with a close friend can help us clarify our romantic intentions right now. Working harder might not be the smartest way to reach our goals today because the more we push, the more resistance we encounter. The reflective Moon sinks into cautious Cancer at 1:37 am EST, tempting us to retreat from external conflict. However, her smooth trine with energetic Mars indicates there is a balance point where we can gain momentum if we move slowly at first. Gradual progress, even if it's hard to measure, is better than none. We will encounter romantic resistance if we try to push our ardent agendas today. Luckily, the pondering Moon settles into conscientious Cancer, and her silky trine with mighty Mars will inspire us to gain momentum in a natural way at this time. Step by step, little by little, we are moving closer to our passionate goals. Rushing romance isn't ever the answer, because it simply doesn't well unfold under pressure. Although it might seem as if almost nothing can stand between us and success today, obstacles appear out of thin air if we're overly confident. Blind optimism is possible when the Sun hooks up with bombastic Jupiter in idealistic Sagittarius, but hope also encourages us to set worthy goals. However, we may be required to fight for what we consider to be most important as a dynamic Mercury-Mars square sets our intentions at odds with someone else's. Being overly confident about matters of the heart can lead us to trouble while the Sun flirts with gigantic Jupiter in sage Sagittarius today. If romantic happiness means anything to us, we will need to be cognizant about our penchant for mulishness, stubbornness and idealism right now, and a powerful Mercury-Mars square makes sure to remind us of that. The only way around obstacles is to meet them head on, not to pretend they don't exist. The curtains open, the lights are turned on, and we are eager to step onto center stage and begin the show. The Moon's shift into dramatic Leo at 3:34 am EST invites us to put on a memorable performance. Meanwhile, a triple conjunction of communicator Mercury with the illuminating Sun and giant Jupiter puts an exclamation point on every sentence we speak. Thankfully, a stabilizing Mars-Saturn sextile limits expansion by anchoring us to reality. With so much passionate potential in our love lives today, we're ready for anything! This cosmic bonanza is thanks in part to the Moon's arrival in liberated Leo and we couldn't be happier for the opportunity to up the ante with a special romantic relationship right now. Additionally, the burning Sun and bountiful Jupiter inspire us to speak from deep within our hearts at this moment, while a calmer Mars-Saturn sextile helps us keep it honest, knowing that love is most rewarding when it's authentic and real. Although good news may overshadow bad news, it's challenging to maintain a healthy perspective when so much is happening at once. The lively Leo Moon encourages us to put a positive spin on a surprising turn of events. However, we can't ignore what's lurking in the shadows as excessive Jupiter crosses paths with Pluto, the Lord of the Underworld. Nevertheless, we are reminded of the power of awareness; it only takes one candle to light the dark. The darkness can catch us off guard sometimes, but the lighthearted Leo Moon infuses us with the desire to shed some shadows that lurk in our love lives right now. Still, the penumbra doesn't always have to imply something negative. In fact, it's because of it that we can discern that the light actually exists: It's because we've been through worse moments in our love lives that we can endure almost anything today. We're aware of our deep potential to overcome our challenges, because we know we're on the right path, and that gives us the passion-fueled power to persevere.  We harbor big ideas when we dream of the future, but it's difficult to squeeze our larger-than-life visions into words. We want to see both sides of an issue once the Moon skips into fair-minded Libra at 9:48 am EST. However, communicator Mercury retrogrades back into shrewd Scorpio, prompting us to choose friends and foes in a conflict. Meanwhile, we gain a wider perspective as magnifying Jupiter forms a magical connection with avant-garde Uranus. Fantasizing about the future of our romantic worlds requires a lot of emotional energy and intellectual imagination today. While the Moon moves through levelheaded Libra, we're eager to make sure we're treating a special relationship situation with fairness in our hearts and minds at this moment. At the same time, gigantic Jupiter creates a cosmic connection with unpredictable Uranus right now, helping us see beyond our occasionally egoistic perspectives. Although the accommodating Libra Moon prompts us to cater to other people's needs, we're likely to express what we want with intense passion. Emotions run extreme as sensual Venus sinks into stormy Scorpio. Trickster Mercury misaligns with wild Uranus, complicating communication by adding uncertainty in conversations. Nevertheless, a combative Sun-Mars square could hijack the day by triggering unnecessary friction unless we process our feelings. The friendly Libra Moon shows us how to better serve our passionate potential today. Beautiful Venus soothes stern Scorpio while mighty Mercury misaligns with unpredictable Uranus, making it more challenging to have positive communications with a lover at this time. Still, an angsty Sun-Mars square may create unexpected angst in our love relationships, but paying attention to our big feelings can help avoid something worse; embracing our powerful emotions surrounding romance is crucial right now. We might not be able to wrap our minds around unexplainable events that lead to an energetic breakthrough today. The mysterious winds of fate are blowing strong as trickster Mercury at the very end of its retrograde period forms supernatural septiles with compulsive Pluto and assertive Mars. An erratic Moon-Uranus opposition adds tension to the mix, but the Moon's shift into perceptive Scorpio at 2:54 pm EST brings the missing information we seek. Sexy synchronicity points us to curious revelations about our romantic circumstances right now. Cheeky Mercury is almost ready to move forward once again, but thanks to supernatural septiles with passionate Pluto and mighty Mars in the mix, we may not be able to fully fathom the magnitude of what's happening in our love lives today. Luckily, the Moon's move into savvy Scorpio means we'll finally find the missing answers to our most curious questions about someone we love at this moment. We can feel the latent magic of manifestation, even if tangible results still seem elusive. Profound healing is possible as an interactive Mercury-Chiron trine reveals a path of forgiveness. Meanwhile, the magnetic Scorpio Moon forms smooth trines with dynamic Mars and imaginative Neptune, enabling our dreams to take physical form. Our words and actions influence the course of events that gain momentum through the New Moon at the end of the week. We're working on manifesting something very special in our love lives, even though it won't happen easily. The lively Mercury-Chiron trine helps us stay objective and forgiving even during tricky conversations and interactions that affect our romantic relationships. Once the New Moon arrives at the end of the week, our words and actions will help us gain magical momentum in our most passionately inspired relationships.  Although our lives are pregnant with unrealized potential as we stand at the precipice of change, everything appears to be at a standstill. The willful Sun's stressful square to amorphous Neptune makes reality feel tenuous. It's difficult to get traction, especially as the intense Scorpio Moon joins Mercury on its last day of retrograde phase. Nevertheless, the future seems within reach once the Moon enters optimistic Sagittarius at 9:48 pm EST. Change in our love lives is inevitable at this moment, even though it's not exactly moving with much momentum today. The stubborn Sun creates an angsty square to fuzzy Neptune, making us feel as if we're clinging to reality by a thread. We're seeing a romance struggling to pick up speed while the strong Scorpio Moon mingles with Mercury on its final retrograde day of backward antics. Once Sagittarius takes over lunar duties, however, idealism and hope will also move back in, helping us create more forward motion in matters of the heart.  What starts out as innocent fun might turn into a chaotic mess while the rowdy Sagittarius Moon parties with boisterous Jupiter. However, unexpected circumstances may require us to make sudden changes in our schedule as the Sun forms an anxious aspect to unpredictable Uranus. Although we can see a viable path into the future after Mercury turns direct today, real progress could take a few more days as the Winged Messenger regains its former speed. The wild and wonderful Sagittarius Moon creates cosmic folly with jumping Jupiter today, tempting us to get into all sorts of romantic trouble. What starts as a fun and fabulous date with a love interest could become complicated, but since this is only the first day that Mercury turns direct again, it will take some time to gain meaningful momentum. We must look out for sudden romantic curve balls flying at us now that the beaming Sun creates an angst-ridden aspect to unexpected Uranus at this time.  The inspirational Sagittarius New Moon at 2:20 am EST opens the windows of opportunity wider than we can imagine. A conjunction between superhero Mars and spiritual Neptune empowers us to perform feats of magic if our intentions are aligned with a higher purpose. However, Mars also crosses paths with irrepressible Uranus, indicating our unwillingness to negotiate with anyone in our way. Nevertheless, cooperation ultimately works in our favor. Get ready for the potential for passionate joy to skyrocket thanks to the stirring Sagittarius New Moon today. We are committed to raising the spiritual stakes with a love interest because we want to bring more mystery and depth to our love connection. Mighty Mars conjuncts esoteric Neptune right now, helping us achieve greater heights with our romantic partners while mighty Mars criss-crosses unruly Uranus, potentially amping up our stubbornness: We'll have to make sure to be more collaborative if we want the good romantic luck to continue. Yesterday's big ideas are grist for today's mills as we do the hard work of turning our fantasies into reality. Although the Moon's shift into ambitious Capricorn at 7:01 am EST motivates us to work rather than play, it's not enough to ensure that we will follow through with our plans. A sweet afternoon kiss from Venus can be distracting, but the Moon's late-night conjunction with taskmaster Saturn could be enough to prevent us from going astray. The work we've put into our love lives is finally bearing fruit as we notice our dreams of love becoming more and more real by the minute. Despite the industrious nature of today's Capricorn Moon, we're going to listen to our hearts instead of our ambitious minds and follow our romantic spirit wherever it takes us. Our desires are distracting, especially when the Moon flirts with Venus, however, it will also have a midnight rendezvous with stern Saturn, helping us make sure we don't go too far, too fast right now.  Self-reflection leads to healing today if we take the time to review the most significant issues we faced over recent months. Chiron the Wounded Healer begins to work its magic as it turns direct, bringing our awareness to whatever stands in the way of health. Mercury's trine to Chiron empowers us to overcome our fears and talk about whatever ails us. Meanwhile, the serious Capricorn Moon keeps us on track until we begin to see the results we seek. This day is perfect to find quality quiet time to reflect on a recent romance and all the adventures, ups, downs and lessons of love we've learned to help us move closer to our ultimate passionate goals. Mercuryu00e2u20acu2122s trine to wounded Chiron gives us the opportunity to face our fears surrounding matters of the heart. Meanwhile, the careful Capricorn Moon helps us say focused until we start making meaningful momentum with a new or revitalized love connection right now.  Although we may be required to attend to unfulfilled commitments, we don't necessarily follow our intentions. The Capricorn Moon demands our presence in the real world, but otherworldly aspects keep us attuned to the subtle mysteries of the cosmos. An unexpected turn of events might be enough to grab our attention and set us back on course. Nevertheless, the Moon's shift into quirky Aquarius at 6:39 pm EST shifts the energy again in surprising ways. We're beckoned by burdens or responsibilities but we're more likely to follow a romantic mystery wherever it may lead us today. We try to stay centered and follow the example of the calm Capricorn Moon but nebulous aspects pull us toward the most misunderstood or enigmatic realms of a current romance. A surprising twist to the day feels like a cold shower as we suddenly wake up to reality, while the Moon's move into curious Aquarius amps up our passions to keep up with all the sexy surprises right now.n Something is different today, yet we can't put our finger on the source of the tension. The wired Aquarius Moon increases the sensitivity of our nervous system. Meanwhile, cerebral Mercury misaligns with electric Uranus, turning the volume up on the static so loud that it might be tricky to discern the truth in the messages we're receiving. Consistency in communication is elusive, so it's best to avoid putting too much meaning into any interaction. Love and romance are abuzz but we're not sure whether this electricity has a positive or negative current just yet. As the day progresses, we may have more trouble being able to understand a lover's message or intentions; perhaps the emotional and intellectual wires are crossed while brainy Mercury steps on curious Uranus's toes. One way to make sure we don't complicate matters of the heart is to keep communications light until this unusual energy passes. Heavy subject matter is definitely for tomorrow or beyond! We try to make up for lost time if there are unanswered financial questions or lingering unresolved relationship issues. Clever Mercury's last day of visiting investigative Scorpio sets a deadline on our research. However, the Winged Messenger flies into the wide-open skies of Sagittarius at 6:42 pm EST, turning our attention from the past and toward the future. Thankfully, the conceptual Aquarius Moon allows us to detach from our emotional baggage. Resolving a romantic issue with a love interest takes priority as mindful Mercury leaves seeker Scorpio today. However, its shift into sage Sagittarius this evening reminds us that facing tomorrow is more proactive than continuing to look behind us. We want to gain momentum in our romantic relationships and make up the time that we may have squandered recently. The curious Aquarius Moon will lead us there, with clarity and wisdom. Discerning the facts may be problematic today as fantasies flow freely. Fortunately, our imaginations are a rich source of treasures once the Moon slips into dreamy Pisces at 7:39 am EST. Although we might feel disoriented at first, we quickly adapt to the new terrain where logic is less important than emotion. Nevertheless, the Moon's stressful square to indulgent Jupiter puts us on notice that we can take a good idea or a joyful feeling too far. Romantic fantasies flow like hot, melted butter, but we will have to focus on important tasks rather than enjoy the sexy show today. The Moon moves through passionate Pisces, and although this may make our love lives a bit confusing for a while, we will soon get used to the unusual energy and make the absolute most of it. Lunau00e2u20acu2122s angsty square with giant Jupiter reminds us not to overstep certain boundaries or take our desires too far right now because we may complicate something that should remain much simpler and sexier. Our emotions gain strength today as the compassionate Pisces Moon inches closer to assertive Mars. However, we might not know where we are heading until we let go of our original plans in order to follow our feelings. A creative Venus-Pluto connection entices us with the possibility of pleasure, yet we're led down a rabbit hole into the darkness of our subconscious minds. Thankfully, the light at the end of the tunnel becomes visible just in time. We will feel our passions rising today now that the welcoming Pisces Moon begins to move toward masculine Mars. Until we identify the path in front of us, we may have a hard time trusting our romantic intuition. An imaginative Venus-Pluto hook-up makes us second guess ourselves in matters of the heart, which could then lead to relationship confusion. This confusing cosmic will soon shift, taking with it the troublesome vibe in our love lives. We are dancing on an edge between innovative intellectual ideas and fuzzy spiritual visions. An anxious connection between brilliant Uranus and surreal Neptune creates tension between our clear thoughts and our muddled dreams. We don't want to let go of our plans for the future, but they might make less sense as the day wears on. Fortunately, we can ride a refreshing wave of new energy once the Moon blasts into action-packed Aries at 7:43 pm EST. Our thoughts mingle with our emotions surrounding love and romance, giving us big, romantic visions and fervent feelings right now. There is an angsty link between unruly Uranus and ethereal Neptune today, making us question the future of a current passion connection. Fortunately, there is new cosmic energy coming to our rescue and once the Moon arrives in ardent Aries, we will get a better grip on matters of the heart as we allow happier vibes to lead us forward. We won't likely experience a moment of rest while the Moon is visiting fiery Aries. Superconductive lunar aspects to chatty Mercury and buoyant Jupiter complicate even the simplest of strategies. However, the Moon runs into a stressful square to bossy Saturn, requiring us to simplify our day by paring back our plans. Thankfully, a supportive sextile to Saturn from pleasant Venus indicates our eagerness to comply with any new limitations. Now that the Moon moves through passionate Aries, we will feel our romantic yearning something fierce today, even if we've been trying to take some time off from the intensity of our love lives. The lunar square to stern Saturn reminds us to do whatever we can to keep things simple, while a supportive sextile between Saturn and Venus shows that we have the power to overcome major obstacles right now. We might feel invincible today while the Moon is visiting headstrong Aries. The fires of our enthusiasm are further stoked by ardent Mars forming a supportive sextile with take-no-prisoners Pluto. Luckily, a creative Mercury-Uranus alignment gives us the gift of gab, especially when we're trying to justify our actions. Nevertheless, our overconfidence can backfire if we let our words run away with our ideas and then believe everything we say. The power of our passion is becoming more obvious today as the Moon shifts into fiery Aries, inspiring feelings of romantic confidence and increased libido. Other cosmic conditions underscore the passionate theme of the day; singleminded Mars creates a harmonious sextile with persistent Pluto while an imaginative Mercury-Uranus alignment makes us want to spill our sexiest secrets to our love interests right now. As exciting as all of this may sound, we'd be wise to not let ourselves become overconfident -- it'll lead to trouble, which we do not need. It seems natural to want to reestablish our centers of gravity and, thankfully, it won't require much effort today. In fact, the Moon's shift into steadfast Taurus at 4:37 am EST is a sweet relief from the excessive energy that was running us around in circles. Everything appears to slow down, requiring less effort to stay on course while giving us more time to enjoy the scenery. Nevertheless, consistent work, even at a gentler pace, is rewarded. The urge to purge that which no longer serves our love lives will be a powerful force today. We owe a debt of gratitude to the tenacious Taurus Moon as it helps to clarify our passionate plans and define our romantic purpose. And, even though we can sense our current romantic circumstances slowing down somewhat, it will help us clearly impart whatever's floating around in our hearts and show our paramours a gentler, more harmonious road to romantic bliss.  We might be concerned that we're not accomplishing enough today, but our reaction could be less to do with reality than with our limited self-esteem. The Sun's harsh square with wounded healer Chiron brings up old memories that confuse current progress with past failures. Fortunately, a hardworking Mars-Saturn connection rewards concentration and follow-through. The determined Taurus Moon reinforces our intentions with her unrelenting steadiness. We want to acknowledge the fact that there is work to do in our love lives given the Sun's angsty square with wounded Chiron today. But even our painful memories of romantic affairs that have ended long ago may still hurt at this moment, confusing our hearts and making us wonder what to do next. A prodigious Mars-Saturn connection helps us focus while the persistent Taurus Moon offers us cosmic reinforcement to follow through on our passionate visions of love. The cosmic breath exhales on an exciting note today as the Moon flies into adaptable Gemini at 9:34 am EST. We're less interested in fighting the winds of change than we are in taking the course of least resistance. The illuminating Sun magically trines brilliant Uranus, blessing us with the ability to easily find solutions to complex problems. If we see something in our mind's eye now, we're very likely able to manifest it without too much effort. There is romantic excitement in the air as the Moon arrives in flexible Gemini today. We are ready to bend to the will of a lover, as long as we see value in their perspective at this moment. It's not that we're so eager for things to change, but we are willing to be emotionally generous and accepting of what happens next. We are also in a powerful position to manifest our fervent desires without turning our lives upside down right now.  We may be lost in fantasies with no plans to manifest them until the Sun enters practical Capricorn at 5:22 pm EST, marking the Winter Solstice in the Northern hemisphere. But we're distracted by our changing moods while the Moon visits whimsical Gemini. Meanwhile, thoughts of sweet love fill our minds while a Venus-Neptune trine brings out the romantic in each of us. An exaggerating Mercury-Jupiter conjunction encourages dreams over reality. Fantasies fuel our perceptions but we won't get a true cosmic nudge to take action in our love lives until later this evening, when the Winter Solstice arrives in the Northern hemisphere and the Sun enters proactive Capricorn. Our passions will be whimsical and we may be distracted by reverie throughout the day while the Moon moves through generous Gemini. Finally, we'll get the ultimate dose of romantic inspiration from a sexy Venus-Neptune trine today, something that will activate our passionate potential right now. Attempts to balance our feelings with a more logical approach may seem hopeless today once the Moon sinks into the moody waters of Cancer at 11:27 am EST. The sensitive Cancer Full Moon at 12:48 pm confirms the dominance of emotions over practical calculations. However, the preponderance of supernatural septiles puts a weird spin on our perceptions. We appear to walk a tightrope between the worlds while actually soaring in the spiritual realms. Leaning on logic is usually our go-to approach to help find clarity within our intense romantic emotions, but as the Full Moon descends into contemplative Cancer, we will find it harder to balance our fluctuating feelings today. Get ready, because a plethora of celestial septiles can put an unusual spin on matters of the heart at this moment, especially when it comes to our passionate perceptions of a current relationship matter. We must do our best to stay grounded, however, even when cosmic conditions entice us to get lost within ourselves instead of connecting with the ones we love. Although the pragmatic Capricorn Sun illuminates our need for traditional structures, a magical solar alignment with ethereal Neptune infuses the mundane world with a spiritual glow. Of course, the holiday season is reaching its culmination, but an easy connection with the metaphysical realms entices us with a more soulful approach to all aspects of our lives. Meanwhile, the security-conscious Cancer Moon keeps us close to home and family. There is a glow of cosmic magic surrounding our romantic worlds as a solar alignment with esoteric Neptune resists the energy of the efficient Capricorn Sun today. We find more to be delighted by with regard to matters of the heart, and we can sense a spiritual spin on everything that has to do with a current romance. Surrounding ourselves with all that makes us grateful to be alive is key, and love plays a big role in how we embrace the joy of the season. Dreams of sugarplum fairies dance in our heads as analytical Mercury stumbles into a square to nebulous Neptune. Whether or not we participate in Christmas Eve celebrations, logic falls away as the surreal overwhelms the real. The Moon enters demonstrative Leo at 11:58 am EST, encouraging us to express our heartfelt emotions to those we love. Nevertheless, an unexpected conversation makes us realize that words alone can't convey what matters most. A surreal spin to our love lives makes life interesting while brilliant Mercury squares entrancing Neptune today. The Moon roars into lively Leo, showing us how to express our deepest feelings to a romantic partner without fear of rejection. We may find ourselves initiating an important talk that will help us reach new emotionally energized layers of intimacy with the ones we love, but words will not suffice; considerate and loving actions can speak volumes right now. We step into a rare karmic-free zone where there are no significant planetary aspects pulling one way or the other. But this cosmic quiet moment is pregnant with possibilities as the animated Leo Moon reminds us of the power of self-expression. Communication is our ally if we focus on the positive potential contained in each and every interaction. The miracle of the day is that our current circumstances actually improve if we believe they do. There are so many possibilities for joy today while the lively Leo Moon inspires us to express whatever is in our hearts at this moment. Every interaction has the potential for something special, especially if we want to make a romantic connection during this merry and festive day. Leaving all our worries behind for a spell can be the biggest gift we give ourselves right now, as well as those whom we love. Common sense returns once the reflective Moon enters down-to-earth Virgo at 12:49 pm EST. But even the most mundane improvement may arrive with a stroke of intellectual illumination while the Moon forms a superconductive Grand Trine with electric Uranus and the brilliant Sun. Our thinking might appear to be unconventional, but practicality rules. An innovative idea is worthless unless it can impact the course of events in the present moment. A change in cosmic energy helps us advance a love affair with common sense and newfound wisdom as the thoughtful Virgo Moon forms a delicious Grand Trine with curious Uranus and the kingsized Sun today. We are full of radical, romantic revelations although we must still abide by the basic laws of the universe to make them happen. Even the most passionate inspiration won't matter a whit if we don't approach matters of the heart with a dose of practicality right now.  We vacillate between focusing on the big picture one minute and then on the minutiae the next. The Virgo Moon needs us to know the tiniest details before we proceed with action. Meanwhile, the Moon's aspects to nebulous Neptune in spacey Pisces and to Mercury in philosophical Sagittarius encourage generalized thinking about vague concepts. Allowing the mind to expand and contract naturally, like inhaling and exhaling, makes the best of both worlds. Relying on our passionately romantic emotions for accuracy is quite a paradox today, especially while the Virgo Moon aspects nebulous Neptune in passionate but flaky Pisces. The brilliant comic energy gives us affectionate vibes to offset obsessiveness and help us accomplish our relationship goals right now. Meanwhile, the Moon's aspect to sage Sagittarius puts our minds in a vague place for a while. We try to regain our mental equilibrium after being pushed and pulled to extremes. A dynamic Moon-Mars opposition motivates us to act on our needs. However, Luna shifts into even-keeled Libra at 3:22 pm EST, reminding us that choosing one side of the see-saw is futile. Nevertheless, our opinions continue to strengthen as magnetic Venus collaborates with potent Pluto. Thankfully, sharing our perspective turns out to be easier than we thought. Romantic conditions may have been fluctuating to the hilt lately, but we're eager to find some stability within matters of the heart today. We're spurred on to take bold action by a lively Moon-Mars opposition although Luna's arrival in liberal Libra reminds us to keep things as even as we can. It won't be easy to hide our feelings from our paramours while passionate Venus connects with powerful Pluto, so we'll have to share them with abandon right now, something that can work to our advantage. The year begins on a powerful note as we look ahead to all the things we want to accomplish. However, we may be overly ambitious when creating our New Year's Resolutions with go-getter Mars spending his first full day in impulsive Aries. We are motivated by intense desires as the Scorpio Moon joins sensual Venus. But we develop a more realistic attitude as evening approaches and the Sun moves toward its annual conjunction with karmic Saturn. The combination of proactive Mars spending a full day with impetuous Aries may send our romantic ambitiousness through the roof today. We'll be able to snap out of unrealistic reverie once the Sun inches toward its annual conjunction with fateful Saturn. We're also contending with bold desires related to a special romantic interest while the sexy Scorpio Moon hooks up with voluptuous Venus right now. Not a bad way to start the new year! Life is a puzzle as the cosmos issues opposing directions. The willful Sun's very early morning hookup with restrictive Saturn tells us to slow down and to make sure every step we take is on point. But the Moon rushes into optimistic Sagittarius at 3:58 am EST and then trines arduous Mars, encouraging us to set our sights even higher. We are caught in the middle of discouraging and encouraging instructions until we finally decide to initiate action. When you get the feeling that your love life has entered Bizarro World, it's time to check in with yourself. Today, as the stubborn Sun advances on disciplined Saturn, we downshift into a much slower, yet more satisfying pace with a special romantic connection; it's either that or continue down a puzzling path at high speed. It's profoundly satisfying when we hit the perfect zone of balance between thoughts and emotions following a period of confusion.  Positive thinking finally conquers any residual negativity or uncertainty as the adventurous Sagittarius Moon joins I-can-do-it Jupiter. Our optimism is further blinded when the Moon forms a dynamic square to imaginative Neptune. Although we can temporarily fool ourselves into believing that anything is possible, we must readjust our thinking when rational Mercury crosses paths with shamanic Chiron, revealing the error of our previous thinking. We feel so much more positive about matters of the heart as the sage Sagittarius Moon melds with confident Jupiter today. We may be inspired by change in our romantic worlds, allowing us to welcome the new without abandoning the good progress we've made thus far. When mental Mercury criss-crosses with healer Chiron, we will better understand how our past paradigms have not lived up our passionate potential. This is a learning moment.  Brilliant ideas come to us when clever Mercury and the Moon both trine wired Uranus. Although we don't know what to do with our exciting breakthroughs at first, our thoughts gain solidity once the Moon enters practical Capricorn at 1:54 pm EST. But we may not be ready to give up our dreams as the Sun sextiles visionary Neptune. Ultimately, Mercury follows the Moon into calculating Capricorn, issuing a cosmic reality check to bring us back to earth. Our love is in overdrive and we will be inspired to look inside ourselves for the passionate yet peaceful reminders of what romance will feel like again once the current busy energy calms down. The Capricorn Moon reminds us that our romantic relationship goals require real effort right now, but we're more than up for this challenge. It is mental Mercury who bestows a gentle, cosmic grace to matters of the heart at this time, which we welcome with open arms. We can expect a surprise from the Capricorn New Moon Eclipse at 8:28 pm EST. Like all New Moons, this one kicks off a new cycle, but this one packs a double punch. Eclipses indicate a change of power at the top, but magnetic Venus misaligns with quirky Uranus, destabilizing the energy even more. Although there are five planets in goal-oriented Capricorn, we may need to change horses in midstream, even if this shift wasn't part of our original plan. If you're starting to get the feeling that you've been spending a bit too much money on romance lately, the Capricorn Solar Eclipse in your 8th House of Shared Resources will inspire you to get your act together today. If you are in a committed coupling, it is more important than ever to get on the same page with your significant other regarding mutual financial matters. The good news is, the moment you take a little time to focus on the business part of your partnership, you will then be more confident about the romantic stuff.  Although the Moon remains in calculating Capricorn today, it's nearly impossible to determine the results of our actions today. Unpredictable Uranus ends its retrograde phase, putting us on notice that chaos can suddenly rear its head without any warning. Several fateful aspects lurk in the shadows, as if waiting to catch us off guard. The Moon's late-night square to Uranus reminds us how quickly the energy can change if we try to cling to the past. We wish our love lives were more predictable at this moment, but since the Moon is still stuck in controlled Capricorn, we're not sure what our recent romantic interections will bring in the days ahead. Adding to this cosmic confusion is unruly Uranus, currently still in its retrograde phase, giving us the heads up that we need to buckle up for possible surprises in matters of the heart today. Getting stuck in an outmoded romantic paradigm isn't wise; we'd be better off letting go of the past in order to free ourselves up to embrace the future.  We are being launched into the future today and, thankfully, our anticipation overpowers our fear of the unknown. The Moon shifts into progressive Aquarius at 1:45 am EST, prompting us to relinquish any emotional baggage that continues to weigh us down. Detachment from the past is even easier once magnetic Venus flies into Sagittarius. It's more natural to fire our arrows of intention toward the horizon ahead, rather than the one behind us. Although we may still harbor fears about making big changes in our love lives, our curiosity will win out in the end, sending us headfirst into a new, unexpected romantic situation today. We are ready to let go of certain emotional triggers that do not serve us, especially as the Moon arrives on the doorstep of adventurous Aquarius. With new intentions set, we boldly face the future of our heart's journey. We are unwilling to passively sit on the sidelines while the action unfolds. A dynamic square between cerebral Mercury and physical Mars motivates us to get out of our heads and into our bodies. We are ready to fight for a belief, even if we must start an argument with an authority figure. Although unresolved emotions can flare up in an instant to hijack a conversation, the cool Aquarius Moon prevents too much subjectivity from taking over. We find ourselves pondering our most precious priorities about love and romance today, especially because we want to take action in an epic love affair. Passionate emotions grow stronger as we experience our love relationships in as much cosmic technicolor detail as possible, even if that means getting in touch with challenging emotions. This is an exceptional opportunity to deepen relationship bonds by clarifying our priorities, especially with the chilled-out Aquarius Moon helping us keep it real right now.  We may be relentlessly determined to establish a plan that's practical enough to manifest our wishes in tangible form. A stalled project from mid-December might suddenly reappear as opportunistic Jupiter forms an anxious aspect with unpredictable Uranus. However, the clouds of illusion obscure reality once the Moon slips into watery Pisces at 2:43 pm EST. Nevertheless, nothing is gained by avoiding conflict, which ultimately can lead to clarity. A practical approach to our passionate dreams may seem like an oxymoron, but itu00e2u20acu2122ll be the best way forward today. Now that jumping Jupiter aspects unruly Uranus, we may want to take care of unfinished business with a love interest. The Moonu00e2u20acu2122s move into sensitive Pisces could create conditions that cause us some confusion in matters of the heart, but our desire for clarity will push us forward and answers will soon come. Although we're serious about being responsible, maintaining a steady pace of productivity is nearly impossible as the Moon drifts through dreamy Pisces. Luna's square to buoyant Jupiter and conjunction with spiritual Neptune turn the volume up on our fantasies. Meanwhile, the somber Capricorn Sun inches toward its annual hookup with unrelenting Pluto, demanding that we process our deepest feelings, even if they don't support current circumstances. It would be so nice to be able to compartmentalize our romantic reverie and sexy urges in exchange for extra productivity, but this will be quite a tall order now that the Moon sashays into passionate Pisces at this time. Our fervent fantasies of love will only be amplified thanks to Luna's square to jubilant Jupiter, and its conjunction with nebulous Neptune will bring even more intensity into matters of the heart right now. We'll feel the pull to ponder our most most active desires, even if today's circumstances don't line up for us perfectly. Transformation is liberating if it frees us from old, worn-out patterns and habits. However, experiencing personal metamorphosis might be frightening if we resist changes that are beyond our control. The key to evolution is welcoming the radiant Sun as it shines its light into Pluto's hidden recesses, enabling us to face our fears with courage. Thankfully, the compassionate Pisces Moon reminds us to be kind to ourselves, even though we're imperfect. If you're ready to transform your love life in a positive way, the cosmos has a lot of power and energy to add to your sexy quest at this moment. The brilliant Sun illuminates passionate Pluto today, giving us the power to embrace mysteries and face our fears about romance. We have cosmic assistance coming from the caring Pisces Moon, helping us remain compassionate, not just with our lovers, but also with ourselves.  We receive an energetic boost from the cosmos as the Moon blasts into action-packed Aries at 3:17 am EST. Luna's mid-afternoon trine to Venus fires up romantic thoughts as we consider how to transform fantasy into reality. A Moon-Mars conjunction pushes our thoughts out of our heads and into the physical world. There's no reason to be shy as long as we keep an eye on the future. We are currently sowing seeds of karma that will be reaped later on. ""Pow!"" says the cosmos as the Moon rockets into adventurous Aries today, creating an energetic boon in our love lives. We're blessed by a mid-day trine between Luna and sexy Venus, amping up our romantic fantasies to the point where we cannot help but try to make them real. Inner visions become realized while a Moon-Mars conjunction nudges our reverie outwardly, helping us manifest the magic in our hearts. The fervent future beckons, but all of our romantic intentions are right here, right now. Reality clashes with our dreams as alternating waves of optimism and pessimism make it difficult to know what to believe. Imagination gets us into trouble as a visionary Jupiter-Neptune square amplifies our fantasies. But idealism hits a wall when cerebral Mercury hooks up with naysaying Saturn. Meanwhile, the hyperactive Aries Moon puts us through our paces as she bounces back and forth between three conflictive squares and an expansive trine. Our romantic reverie leans optimistic, but the current reality we find ourselves in could be a bit of a dark cloud over our idealistic notions today. Our creative impulses may go a bit too far as a gigantic Jupiter-Neptune square turns the heat up in our minds and hearts. Mental Mercury colludes with serious Saturn, adding a serious tinge to matters of love and romance. We'll have to suffer through this cosmic kerfuffle right now, but this too shall pass.  Our urges to react are restrained by the consideration of long-term goals. We know what we want to do in the present moment, but the impulsive Aries Moon squares the calculating Capricorn Sun. Meanwhile, a fantasy-prone Mercury-Neptune sextile captivates our rational minds. We may experience an unexpected plot twist as we try to regain our center of gravity. Confusion transforms into certainty when the Moon enters steadfast Taurus at 1:31 pm EST. Romantic urges intensify but we may choose to restrain them as the ardent Aries Moon squares the conniving Capricorn Sun. But thanks to a spiritually-slanted Mercury-Neptune sextile, we will be doubly tempted to pursue the most ardent agenda we can. Keeping the intensity in our love lives is high and how we purposely choose to approach matters of the heart right now. Confusion will soon move out and clarity will move back in once the Moon returns to deliberate Taurus mid-day. We may finally receive the reality check that we have been seeking. Although living in a world where facts and fake news are often blurred, what we see is what we get while the pragmatic Taurus Moon forms an easy trine to karmic Saturn. Thankfully, communication comes to the rescue as a Moon-Mercury trine encourages us to share our feelings. Fortunately, five planets in sensible Earth signs indicate that our words are grounded in the simple truth. After a period of unrealistic expectations about love and romance, we finally get a chance for a clarifying, cold shower vibe that will help us keep it real regarding matters of the heart. We are more grounded, and thanks to the tenacious Taurus Moon's trine with fateful Saturn, we will have no trouble seeing romantic circumstances in their most truthful light.  Steady progress is satisfying now, even if we're moving slowly. Nevertheless, we may be concerned about potential setbacks, motivating us to lay a solid foundation while the Moon is still plodding through determined Taurus. Meanwhile, we might revisit old memories while the serious Capricorn Sun crosses the Moon's karmic South Node. Luna shifts into busy Gemini at 8:00 pm EST, reminding us that today's efforts create tomorrow's success. We yearn to make progress in our love lives but we must be aware of certain dangers. The Moon drudges through thorough Taurus, creating potentially tricky moments in our romantic relationships. Projecting our emotions on our lovers can create tension but knowing that the day is long, we can surely find the time to bring the light back into our romantic connections by expressing our heartfelt emotions with care and compassion. Luna will glide into gentler Gemini tonight, reminding us that positive repercussions will soon follow our wise decisions about love. Finding a sustainable pace at work can be tricky while the fickle Gemini Moon bounces us around from one thought to another. Boredom triggers restlessness if we're required to perform too many routine tasks. Although the changing emotional tides can't find a place to rest, we don't necessarily fret about the current lack of stability. There's nothing wrong with harboring dreams as long as we are clear about the difference between ideals and reality. Our romantic thoughts and feelings bobble up and down while the changeable Gemini Moon affects our emotional energy right now. Even though this may make us less than productive, we're not too bothered about taking short respites throughout the day in the name of romantic reverie. As long as we don't relinquish our responsibilities, giving ourselves permission to enjoy the occasional excursion into delicious daydreams is the right thing to do today. Intense cosmic activity makes it difficult to stay on track. Although a creative Venus-Mars trine puts a pleasant spin on the day, an intense Mercury-Pluto conjunction drives our conversations into emotionally charged realms that may bring unpleasant power struggles to light. Disruptive interactions can be physically exciting or energetically draining. A calmer and quieter evening is likely once the Moon slips into reflective Cancer at 10:43 pm EST. Conversations with lovers may feel incendiary while a stark Mercury-Pluto conjunction figures prominently in the cosmic forecast today. Romantic drama has the power to siphon our energy but good news -- once the Moon dances with sentimental Cancer, any remaining angsty vibes within our romantic relationship will calm right down now. We may feel disconnected from those around us today as we try to make sense of a complex situation. The moody Cancer Moon enables us to create invisible walls to ensure our emotional security. But a stressful connection between the willful Sun and surreal Neptune amplifies anxious fantasies. Nevertheless, external circumstances still demand our attention, setting up conflict between our inner and outer worlds if we fail to meet our obligations. You've been dogged in your romantic pursuits, but today you might be wise to take a step back and reflect on whether or not you're really being realistic. If there's one thing you know how to do, it's set a goal and work hard until you achieve it. However, matters of the heart aren't that simple. Love requires you to surrender yourself to it. This isn't about giving up; rather, it's about coming at it from a totally different approach. Although we still may cling to the past, it's a whole new ballgame today. We are on edge with anticipation while electric Uranus shocks pleasure-seeking Venus. Fantasies overwhelm reality when Venus squares illusory Neptune. Our desire for new experiences is heightened by the Sun's shift into unconventional Aquarius. We crave the adrenaline rush, but we're unwilling to let go of lingering feelings until the Moon enters lively Leo at 10:54 pm EST. You may have been taking a break from matters of the heart, but today you could be inclined to test the romantic waters once again. Fortunately, your time away gave you what you needed as you embark on your quest for love: self-assurance and recharged energy. A number of potential love interests are going to pick up on this. Don't worry about entertaining every offer -- that's entirely up to you. Just know that you'll have plenty of options. We are eager for attention while the dramatic Leo Full Moon Eclipse at 12:15 am EST encourages us to be seen. We yearn for recognition, but the Moon's opposition to the aloof Aquarius Sun creates a dilemma. We think we know what we want but then we change our minds as impetuous Mars squares naysaying Saturn. Rather than seeking simple answers to our questions, we can learn much if we honor conflicting feelings without seeking resolution just yet. As an independent sign, it isn't always easy for you to be vulnerable with others, but a Lunar Eclipse in expressive Leo may give you the nudge needed to say what's in your heart. Have you been admiring someone from afar, afraid to tell them how you feel? Do you want to take your relationship with someone to the next level? This is the time to make it known! It's possible you'll realize this other person has been on the same page with you the entire time.   We may feel lazy as our expectations soar today. We can be so enamored with the silver lining to a cloud that we forget about possible delays or setbacks that are looming out on the horizon. Meanwhile, a conjunction of sweet Venus and exuberant Jupiter amplifies romance and optimism. The animated Leo Moon harmonizes with ingenious Uranus, revealing new choices to solving an old mystery prior to her entry into perfectionist Virgo at 10:21 pm EST. Our hearts are soaring as we look for the silver lining in every aspect of our love life. A tantalizing conjunction of sweet Venus and exuberant Jupiter will amplify romance and optimism. While this is a perfectly positive state of mind to be in, it could also cloud your judgment and leave you unprepared for and delays or setbacks your heart may have to endure. You may not be able to see the issues that are rooted in your relationship or understand that your crush may need some time before moving forward. Allow hope to fill your heart, but keep your eyes, ears, and the door for communication open.n Our best intentions are not enough to keep us on the straight and narrow today, even though the Moon is traveling through conscientious Virgo. Erratic thoughts lead us astray when mischievous Mercury squares irrepressible Uranus. Our creative instincts are strong, and our dreams are worth pursuing. Although we may be so captivated by a fantasy that previous priorities fall to the wayside, practicality returns when the Moon trines stabilizing Saturn. You canu00e2u20acu2122t keep your mind from wandering today! Even with the Moon in pure and perfect Virgo, you wonu00e2u20acu2122t be able to keep your thoughts straight, especially while thinking about your love life. Mischievous Mercury will square irrepressible Uranus, allowing us to be completely captivated by fantasy. This could be fun and playful as you daydream about your crush or significant other and your romantic life together. Or you may wind up in a dark space, wondering if your love life will ever change. Enjoy your creative mind but keep one foot in reality. It seems as if something has shifted in our minds, transforming heavy thoughts into brilliant ideas. Cerebral Mercury's entry into conceptual Aquarius feels like brain food, enabling us to grasp previously elusive ideas. But we may take an intellectual breakthrough too far as Mercury connects with overconfident Jupiter. The Moon's move into fair Libra at 11:02 pm EST reminds us that a balanced approach to the future improves our chances for success. It seems like youu00e2u20acu2122re finally seeing clearly. Your desires and the things you want most from love are fading out of the haze and into plain view. At least, thatu00e2u20acu2122s how it appears. Today, your mind will transform heavy thoughts into brilliant ideas as cerebral Mercury moves into conceptual Aquarius. While everything might seem clear as day, the objects of your desire and the plan that youu00e2u20acu2122re concocting to acquire them may not be true or wise. Allow reality to set in before you pull a Romeo. Yesterday's big ideas seem even better today. Heroic Mars forms a resonant trine with extravagant Jupiter, turning a trivial matter into a major melodrama. Meanwhile, the Moon's smooth trines with mental Mercury and the willful Sun can make us feel nearly invincible. Nevertheless, a restrictive lunar square to stodgy Saturn tosses obstacles in our path, requiring us to readjust our priorities. That which doesn't stop us makes us stronger. We start the day ready to strut our stuff, feeling pretty confident with ourselves and where we stand with a lover or love prospect. But we could find things aren't going as smoothly as we thought when our attempts at connecting seem to hit a wall. Readjusting our approach is necessary if we want to create the intimacy we seek. We may be weary from the cosmic storms that have recently required our full engagement. But we might have an opportunity to enjoy clearer skies or, at least take shelter while the Moon wends her way through pleasure-seeking Libra. Luna's supportive sextiles to lucky Jupiter and sweet Venus tempt us with the hope of better times ahead. However, we must stand up for our beliefs when the Moon opposes contentious Mars and squares domineering Pluto. It's a good thing you're known for your determination -- you'll need it today! While you are typically quite confident in yourself, a negative love experience could have you feeling a bit insecure now. Whether it's an uncaring comment from your partner or a rejection from a love interest, you have to realize that this is about them, not you. Just keep being your beautiful self.  The cosmos turns up the volume on our feelings as the Moon sinks into the intense waters of Scorpio at 2:30 am EST. We're less interested in diplomatic negotiation than in winning at any cost. However, our passions may run into someone's cool logic, leaving us without a sensible fallback strategy. Fortunately, we're able to meet emotional detachment head-on with a forceful argument when clever Mercury forms a creative connection to dynamic Mars. Our emotions are running at full-charge today, and we won't be satisfied unless love is everything we want it to be. But everyone isn't on the same page now, and we may hit a wall when our significant others aren't feeling all the feels like we are. Just because someone else loves differently doesn't mean it's wrong though -- love takes on many colors, but it's all love. We want to know the truth about someone's emotions, but the deeper we dig, the more confusing everything becomes. The Scorpio Moon deputizes us with investigative powers as we search for elusive secrets. Luna's cooperative alignments with realistic Saturn and surrealistic Neptune help us distinguish fact from fiction. However, a complicated Sun-Jupiter entanglement shines its light on a new mystery in front of us each time we solve the previous one. Our emotional expeditions to discern a lover's truth may lead to cosmic confusion today as the Scorpio Moon endows us with the power to untangle passionate mysteries. A challenging Sun-Jupiter knot will make it difficult to see romantic reality for what it is, luckily, strategic Saturn and nimble Neptune form harmonious alignments which will help us keep it real right now. We can find solace in the fact that we will not give up until we have the answers to our most curious questions about matters of the heart.  We can see ahead, but the gravity of a current situation prevents us from wandering off into the future. The ambitious Capricorn Moon prompts us to set specific goals and to create a practical plan, so we can carry out our agenda. However, someone appears to work against our good intentions as contentious Mars forms a stressful square with unrelenting Pluto. A looming interpersonal battle may be unavoidable unless we're willing to compromise. The future of our love lives is in question as we begin to see the seriousness of our relationship circumstances in a clear light today. We are motivated to push through the cosmic resistance of mad Mars and its anxious square with perpetual Pluto at this moment, especially if we have a specific romantic agenda and big goals that keep us from sleeping soundly. Luckily, the scrappy Capricorn Moon won't let us give up the fight as it reminds us that a dose of commonsense can go a long way toward helping us achieve satisfaction in matters of the heart right now.  Yesterday's problems may linger, but at least we feel as if we made it through the eye of the storm. The responsible Capricorn Moon runs into stressful aspects with Pluto and Mars, challenging us to clarify our needs to others. Meanwhile, an electric Venus-Uranus trine fires up a desire for excitement, along with the wish to be free of emotional attachments. Experiencing an adrenaline rush feels better if we can moderate our ups and downs. Despite recent turbulence in our love lives, we feel more emotional breathing room today. The caring Capricorn Moon bumps up against anxious aspects with powerful Pluto and mighty Mars, reminding us of the importance to be authentic about what we feel right now. We're drawn to sexy excitement while a buzzing Venus-Uranus trine stimulates our brains, bodies and minds. This may also cause us to seek more independence from entanglements, and if there's room for romantic adventure in our lives, we're going to get addicted to the rush in no time.  Hopes of a bright future can bring smiles back to our faces, but we still can't shake our darker feelings. The Moon shifts into innovative Aquarius at 8:03 am EST, amplifying the futuristic energy in the atmosphere. Meanwhile, Mercury forms an eye-opening sextile to broadminded Jupiter, empowering us with the gift of vision. Fortunately, Venus slips into pragmatic Capricorn, tempering an irrepressible enthusiasm with a healthy dose of common sense. Cosmic conditions attempt to create bright skies in our love lives, however, we may be carrying around a few weighty stones of worry at this moment. The future of our romantic connections beckon thanks to the farsighted Aquarius Moon, while mindful Mercury's spirited sextile with giant Jupiter shows us the power of looking forward in our relationships today. We won't stray too far from reality now that Venus moves into commonsense Capricorn, helping us solidify our visions of love. Like a snake repeatedly shedding the skin it outgrows, we expand our minds when we're ready to leave limiting habits behind. The inventive Aquarius New Moon at 4:03 pm EST is a clear wake-up call that spins us around a few times and then aims us in the direction of our imagined satisfaction. But nothing is gained by waiting for the cosmos to text you with the new rules to the changing game. Create your own playbook without worrying about anyone else. It's time to expand the paradigms in our love lives and leave behind what no longer serves our purposes. But no one can tell us what that looks like at this moment, because it's up to us to figure it out, especially with the genius Aquarius Moon in the cosmic forecast today. Let us write our own rules of engagement because we alone are the masters of our universe. There is no one better at looking out for our hearts than ourselves, making this the right time to start a brand new venture in our passionate passage through time and space. We may run around like headless chickens today, unable to decide where to go. But it's nearly impossible to measure our individual success until we know where we currently stand. The intellectual Aquarius Moon emphasizes rational thoughts, elevating the head over the heart. Thankfully, the Moon sinks into watery Pisces at 9:01 pm EST, re-stimulating buried feelings. Memories that sought safety by hiding in the dark can now come into the light. The more you engage in open and honest conversation with someone you're attracted to, the better you can convey your thoughts and feelings today. There may be a few secrets that come out during your discourse, creating a sudden level jump in your shared intimacy. Don't shy away from this kind of soul-bearing moment, as it holds the power to deepen your romantic connection. Once you feel more confident about opening your heart, you indicate that you feel great trust right now, and this can lead you to a passionate awakening. Daydreams take on a life of their own today as we watch them unfold. But we're uncertain about the future because the fantasy-prone Pisces Moon creates four fateful septiles -- aspects that reveal the thinness of the boundary between worlds. Complicating matters further, surreal Neptune forms a creative connection to sensual Venus, triggering a cascade of beautiful images. It's all too tempting to lose ourselves in the mental hallucinations, whatever the cost. Romantic reverie comes at you with extra force and passion today, but we're not afraid to view it and bring it into our hearts. The esoteric Pisces Moon creates a grouping of visionary septiles which make us aware of the thin layer that separates the cosmos from our passionate selves. It's more tempting than ever to dive headfirst into our sexy fantasies, but having one foot on the ground would be wise at this time.  Maintaining a consistent pace is nearly impossible at first, yet grows easier throughout the day. Confusion reigns in the morning because we can't easily turn our thoughts into reality. We might even consider giving up, but persistence pays off. The energy of a supportive Sun-Jupiter sextile magically morphs frustration into full-blown enthusiasm. Meanwhile, turning talk into action is simple when loquacious Mercury connects with physical Mars. Nebulous cosmic energy can make you feel a little dreamy right now, with colorful visions of love peppering your thoughts throughout the day. Look for symbolic information in the form of sexy synchronicity, and should you be inspired, do some journaling because interesting revelations are likely to occur. Cosmic clues yearn to shift away from your subconscious into your waking state to help you better understand current matters of love and romance. If you're carrying around extra stress in your shoulders, start moving until you're out of breath. Getting physical has a way of clarifying the mind, and that may be exactly what your heart, body and soul need at this moment. We might feel as if we're in the last inning of a baseball game. Or, perhaps we are approaching a very significant deadline. Either way, the spiritual Pisces Moon can turn a mundane issue into a minor existential crisis. But the end is not as near as it seems. We are at the cusp of a beginning with Luna poised to begin the cycle anew as she bolts into Aries at 9:34 am EST. We need to act now, or we'll be singing the Hesitation Blues later on. A romantic dream is reignited in your heart and you have just found a brand new well of life-force energy with which to approach your passionate goals. You don't need to push your agenda too forcefully, however, because that's not how romance works. Ironically, the less you exert your will, the more naturally your current romantic circumstances will unfold. A sweetheart will feel the tug of your magnetism and come to you -- willingly. We are hot to trot now that the Moon is visiting impulsive Aries. Green lights get brighter day by day as energetic Mars, also in Aries, approaches a potent conjunction with irrepressible Uranus this week. Meanwhile, an expressive Mercury-Uranus sextile motivates us to talk about our plans. Nevertheless, something isn't quite right and the Moon's square to resistant Saturn demands that we wait for the perfect moment before swinging into action. Passionate energy will be your fuel today, making you want to go, go, go! Ironically, this can also be an important moment to hit the brakes because this is exactly when you're liable to trip and sprain something. Consider this your cosmic reminder to gather more information about someone you love right now, especially because their unique way of looking at your love connection can be illuminating for you at this moment. Remind yourself that stepping back for a minute can also help you launch forward. We may be overcome by uncertainty as logical Mercury falls into the emotional waters of dreamy Pisces. Although this change of mental landscape requires us to adjust to the fuzziness of our sense perceptions, it's also an opportunity to put the imagination to work. We might fight against our own doubts, pushing ahead and then falling behind. Thankfully, a strong wave of determination washes over us when the Moon enters steady Taurus at 8:28 pm EST. Even if you have everything you want in your love life, you're motivated to acknowledge the path that you took to get to this moment. You've been uplifted by lovers in the past, you've been given lessons of love and you've been blessed to understand your heart from the inside out. You're having what feels like a gratitude explosion and it has the power to well up in your eyes in the form of tears of joy. Even if you're making swift momentum with a new love interest, it will always benefit you to stop for a minute to give thanks. Optimism is being recycled from the depths of our subconscious. We might not be aware of anything that has changed, but we can't help but feel as if everything is going to be just fine. The obstinate Taurus Moon won't allow us to be deterred from our personal goals. Luckily, Luna's mid-afternoon trine to loving Venus tints reality with rose-colored glasses. Unfortunately, we cannot backup our positivity with facts; we just feel it in our guts. Allow your daydreams to prove to you that your inner fire is always burning, especially where love is concerned. You can hear yourself think and feel yourself loving something deeply profound within you. In such soft moments, passionately pondering matters of the heart brings you rich emotions that serve your passionate purpose. Continue to trust this reverie, as if it is a gift from Aphrodite herself. It's unusual for restlessness to hijack our day when the Moon is moving through pragmatic Taurus. Luna's square to the know-it-all Aquarius Sun tempts us to maintain the status quo. Nevertheless, significant change is in the air as action-hero Mars hooks up with wild-card Uranus late tonight. Clinging to the past can backfire if we fall into denial. Paradoxically, working with the truth, even if it's disruptive, is the best way to ensure stability. It may be easier than normal to dive into an emotionally-charged love relationship situation today, especially if you're motivated to search your dreams for answers. Your heart is intuitively connected with your lover's heart, something that isn't always easy to perceive. See if you can let someone you're involved with assist you in a current project or life quest, especially if you think working together will have positive repercussions for your love connection. The world appears to be in a state of accelerated motion. It's as if we are suddenly breaking through a glass ceiling that has previously kept the lid on things. The early morning Mars-Uranus conjunction can continue to deliver shocks all day as we respond to unexpected events personally and globally. The Moon flies into breezy Gemini at 4:31 am EST, enabling us to interact with all the twists and turns that changing circumstances have to offer. Your lover's drama will affect you today, most definitely. What usually might be considered a totally minor event will suddenly seem like the biggest brouhaha of your relationship, especially if you think there is dishonesty involved. Remind yourself that it is in your control to keep your emotions nice and cool because you need to take care of yourself, even during heated moments. This chaos is temporary and you'll help end your romantic kerfuffle if you're able to not get overly flustered by what's happening around you right now. Our individual agendas are simple and straightforward on this Valentine's Day. Enterprising Mars prompts us to limit our behavior to practical activities as it marches into sensible Taurus. But love is stranger than science now that planets align on four points of a seven-pointed star. Don't be surprised when someone stands up and yells, "Plot twist!" We are all in the hands of fate while supernatural septiles dominate the cosmos and our lives. You'll be able make positive progress toward a big goal in your love life today, even if there are other busy elements of your life that are keeping you on your toes. You're in the process of cutting away anything that isn't part of your efficiency plan, but you must go slow enough to implement the changes you want to make to your romantic world in a safe and sound way. Pay attention to small details because the growth you're attempting to achieve requires gardener-like patience. We may need to take a few steps back from recent events to put them into perspective. Fortunately, we're given a bit of breathing room as the planetary harmonies settle into a softer melody. The Moon's shift into nurturing Cancer at 9:02 am EST sets the tone for the day. We're less interested in pushing boundaries than in protecting them. Nevertheless, reestablishing our priorities in the present moment is the first step toward realizing our dreams. If you cannot be cuddled up with someone you adore in the privacy of your own love nest, you'll be fantasizing about it in detail today. You're really eager to do something mellow with someone you love, not because you have no energy, but because you're in the mood for the comfort of a soft and emotionally safe place to land after some stress in your life. If you don't have romantic options to help you regain your inner peace, do what you can to get to that place of relief in another way -- it's just about loving and caring for yourself right now. We prefer emotional security over taking a calculated risk while the Moon is visiting cautious Cancer, but circumstances might require us to step outside of our comfort zone. The Moon's sweet trine to dreamy Neptune encourages us to visualize the best possible outcomes, but too much unrealistic idealism can land us in trouble. Thankfully, the Moon subsequently opposes karmic Saturn and unrelenting Pluto, rewarding self-discipline and hard work. Now that you're feeling more secure about your work life, you want to bring in this same kind of motivational energy into your love life today. You're using the positivity that you feel about professional endeavors and trying to use some of your project management skills to improve current matters of the heart. Making a good impression on a love interest is a high priority at this moment; you want to keep moving in a positive direction because romance makes you feel like the richest person in the world right now. Fantasies grow so convincing that we can mix up dreams and reality. Nevertheless, a little common sense allows us to explore alternatives by embarking on imaginative excursions while resourceful Venus harmonizes with otherworldly Neptune. We may be shocked by how quickly the energy transforms once the Moon shifts into melodramatic Leo at 10:20 am EST. Although we won't change our tunes easily, we sing whatever songs are most appropriate in the moment. It's getting obvious that something must change in your love life right now, and you've been definitely feeling a magnetic pull toward new adventures inside of your heart lately. Be careful before turning your world upside-down, however, because yearning to break free from old habits can make a person terribly impulsive. Instead, take sufficient time to ponder your options while you focus on some busy-work. Your intuition will be whispering answers to your passionate questions in the days ahead. Everything is changing so fast that it's challenging to make a decision and stick with it. We're eager to demonstrate how well we perform under stress while the Moon visits expressive Leo. But impulsive declarations of freedom and unpremeditated acts of rebellion elicit instant karma when sexy Venus runs into restrictive Saturn. Meanwhile, the Sun's shift into compassionate Pisces at 6:03 pm EST reminds us that it's always appropriate to be kind. Being totally honest with a paramour leads to good fortune as the Sun creates positive energy in your 12th House of Privacy today. If there is anything you're feeling insecure about, you have an opportunity to connect with the one you love in a profound way and make it all better. You also are cosmically inspired to plumb the depths of your subconscious for answers to an important, passionate question. You're more in line with your romantic dreams than you've ever been, but you're smart enough to keep your expectations realistic right now. Fact and fiction are engaged in a battle for supremacy as logical Mercury tangos with surreal Neptune. However, the waxing Moon slips into precision-oriented Virgo at 9:46 am EST, reminding us to recheck our data one more time. The Virgo Full Moon opposes the dreamy Pisces Sun at 10:53 am, inviting a wider range of possible cosmic scenarios. Fortunately, a methodical Mercury-Saturn sextile brings the intellectual tools we need to identify the truth. If matters of the heart make you feel shattered, the energetic flow of your day won't satisfy today. Confusion builds as you attempt to find closure to a romantic dilemma while the shy Virgo Full Moon idles in your 12th House of Endings today. You no longer trust in the path forward, but you're also unsure that you can let go of something you're used to feeling so confident about. Despite all appearances to the contrary, you're in a position to create an alternate ending to your love story right now. How does your ""happily ever after"" look? We're caught in a web of fake news and might not see a simple path back to the truth. Nevertheless, we're obsessed with nature's secrets, reminding us that we don't necessarily know everything. Surprisingly, the analytical Virgo Moon may offer an intuitive breakthrough as she opposes imaginative Neptune. However, the cosmos issues a reality check when the Moon and Sun each connect with austere Saturn. We have no choice; we must play by the rules. If you feel that you're missing a vital piece of information about someone in your love life, you'll put in extra energy to dig until you find it today. If you meet unexpected resistance, it could be that you're pushing too hard to get all the answers at once, something that can ultimately thwart your efforts. Settle into the unknowableness of love right now, because as soon as you stop looking, you'll find something important. It's only at the point that you'll be able to take positive action with confidence. Our most sensible strategy is to hold our current course as steady as possible. However, the reflective Moon dances into artistic Libra at 9:17 am EST, distracting us with a colorful painting, a captivating book, a fascinating idea or an intriguing artifact. We may become so enamored with the beauty that we temporarily forget about our pressing responsibilities. Anything is possible now that the Sun is creating a magical quintile to buoyant Jupiter. Try as you might to do it all on your own today, you could be missing out on a valuable benefit of your romantic world at this moment. There's a special person in your life who can help you with a current endeavor, but if you're romantically linked, you may resist the idea of collaborating with a lover. When the universe gives you a freebie like this, take advantage of it. Just because you let someone you adore help you doesn't mean you're now forever reliant on them. It may just mean they love you and simply want to make your life easier. Think about it. An ideal resolution to our extreme reactivity today must magically restore a moderate sense of balance. Thankfully, the Libra Moon encourages us to believe that equanimity is obtainable. However, inflated thinking is likely while cerebral Mercury squares overblown Jupiter. Meanwhile, our feelings are raw with intensity now that sensual Venus fuses with volcanic Pluto. Communication is the key that prevents uncertainty from hijacking our confidence. Even if you feel the need to rush to a lover's side, there will be deadlines and issues that may steal you away from romance, at least for a while. Your intuition tells you what feels right, but your intellect lights up your common sense, reminding you that you'll have to find a balance between what you'd like to be doing versus things you must take care of at this time. You're motivated to tend to unfinished business as quickly as possible knowing that love awaits. Keeping the balance between work and play isn't always easy, but you'll find a way to make it happen today. We're not quite ready to abandon intense feelings that linger after a recent encounter. The Moon enters extreme Scorpio at 10:55 am EST, preventing us from letting go of any unprocessed emotions. Thankfully, communicator Mercury forms a cooperative sextile to passionate Pluto, empowering us to share our secrets. Meanwhile, an optimistic Mars-Jupiter alignment lights the way, possibly revealing a path that leads us to a more balanced position. You're feeling quite protective of your heart today, especially if someone is attempting to pry certain secrets out of you at this moment. You usually like to be more trusting about matters of love and romance, but you're motivated to keep a lid on certain issues, at least until you can initiate and have a substantive conversation with your romantic interest. This is a good moment to reinforce your physical and emotional boundaries, although given time, you'll find the courage to disclose your mysteries -- but only when you're ready. It might seem as if we stepped out of our real lives and onto a set of a ""Twilight Zone"" episode. However, pinching ourselves proves the current situation is the real deal. The cosmic lovers, Venus and Mars, engage with surreal Neptune in a bubble of fantasies. It's nearly impossible to know what is factual. Thankfully, we can build confidence by setting and accomplishing realistic goals. Small successes go a long way to improve self-esteem. Outmoded patterns in your love life aren't cutting the mustard anymore, making you want to look beyond your current vision for the future. A more peripheral view of your passionate potential will remind you that what's done is done, and tomorrow has got a whole new set of adventures in store for you. If you can let go of certain fears that have kept you from embracing love in the past, it's time to work through them like a champ or forever wonder what you've missed. True love can draw you out. Don't hide from it. Fulfilling our individual responsibilities is a necessary step toward achieving job satisfaction. Although chatty Mercury comes to our aid as it harmonizes with the Lunar Nodes, we're not going to talk our way out of an uncomfortable situation. Nevertheless, the Moon soars into uplifting Sagittarius at 4:19 pm EST, carrying our dreams into the great unknown. If we are overly intent on manifestation, we could easily miss the magic of the moment. If you're worried about how your current love life circumstances will pan out today, consider this a good moment to revisit your heart's truest goals to see if you're where you want to be. The key to maintaining romantic harmony within you is to feel your intuition and trust it now. Cosmic clues to unravel the mysteries of love come at you in symbolic ways today. Your heart's power to inform you allows you to live, and love, with authenticity and wisdom. We are compelled to take a deep emotional dive while the Sun's anxious aspect to unrelenting Pluto pulls us into the shadows. The cavalier Sagittarius Moon squares the self-questioning Pisces Sun, possibly sending us into a tailspin. Thankfully, a fated Sun-Uranus connection suddenly awakens us from our reveries by shocking us with lightning bolts of awareness. Observing the differences between fiction and non-fiction enables us to clarify the truth. A change of heart is central to your emotional experience today, particularly when it comes to love and romance. You are aware of a challenging romantic situation which forces you to adopt a new perspective, or suffer consequences should you decide to look the other way. You don't normally get a thrill from relationship stress, but because you're aware that taking bold action is your only way forward right now, you're ready to get busy and transform your situation with a fiery spirit. True change only happens on your terms, and you possess the incentive to carry it through today. You realize that unless you take the wheel, you will not arrive at your destination. Your hopes and dreams depend on you to initiate action. Thankfully, others are rooting for your success now. You might even receive an unexpected boon, perhaps in the form of backing from a significant source. This blessing gives you the impetus to jump into the driver's seat and rev the engine. Ready, set, go! Your attitude determines your direction. Someone who loves you may not know what's behind your Mona Lisa smile today, but that's by how you like it, especially if you believe your mystery is unfathomable to anyone but you at this moment. As you reflect on your deepest motivations, you see that there may be some outdated perspectives about romance which require an update. You don't have to cut into all of your prior paradigms; only keep what will truly serve your passionate purpose. You implement a new facet of your plan at work today. Your industrious demeanor contrasts with the robust tone you usually send out into the world. Your determination outweighs everything else now, but fire hides in there as well. Think of the pressure of a steam engine. The combustion heats the water, sublimates it, and drives the entire train forward. The flame, though, is unseen, in the belly of the engine, doing the work. Ignite your passion and you are an unstoppable force. You're eager to gain support for a long-term plan for your love life, but you're not sure how your sweetheart will take it today. You're dealing with a boatload of passion at this moment, fueling your purpose in a way that makes you seem unstoppable to those around you. You're not only feeling pragmatic about matters of the heart, but you're a force to be reckoned with, a force that any lover would be proud to be involved with, assuming their dreams vibe with your dreams right now. Hooking up with a whole new crowd of like-minded people invigorates you today. Your excitement doubles if you are feeling overburdened or restrained by responsibilities within your current circle. Give in and allow a friend to take you to a gathering they believe you would enjoy. Pleasant company with no strings attached is just what the doctor ordered now. Besides, checking out all your social options always sets you up for success. Don't think twice; just say yes. The fact that you may see an opportunity to make a new love connection makes you happy today, especially if you've recently been weighed down by a heavy situation. You're not really interested in anything but fun and possibly folly, but that's because you're temporarily allergic to making any new commitments. Resist the temptation to overthink any tempting offers. You can enjoy yourself without much worry right now, because affirming your fervent freedom is a turn-on for you. Healing spiritual and emotional scars from the past is entirely possible now, which is probably music to your ears. You've been dragging around some pretty heavy baggage, and lately, it's cramping your style and stretching your patience. You know you're overdue for a change, but sometimes even you Rams hold onto the status quo in order to maintain control. Although you appreciate the support of your friends, you may be the only one willing to take charge today. The best way to get out of a rut is to switch gears. For some reason, you may be trying hard to hold on to emotional control instead of allowing natural changes to occur in your love life right now. Luckily, you have the power to overcome any pain and suffering that still lingers as a result of a past love affair. Instead of getting stuck in this predictable mire, rethink your romantic agenda and embrace your heart's fire right now. Change is happening -- and you do not want to be left out! You're ready to put your foot down, and to keep it there, even after you cool off. A certain someone has been baiting you into arguments and pushing your buttons in social situations just to see just how much they can get away with -- and they aren't showing any signs of stopping. Enough is enough, and it's up to you to let them know that you've officially reached your breaking point. It may feel like it's your way or the highway now, but compromise is the true route to happiness. If you are experiencing frustration stemming from a lover's actions, and if there is no sign of this abating, a cosmic reminder to bring things back into balance inspires you to speak your piece today. You have reached the tipping point and you're no longer amused by your significant other's troublesome manner. The choice is yours right now: Continue to put up with challenging angst in your love life or find a way to let someone you love know and understand your displeasure. Kindness is crucial or you won't see positive results. You made your point and others seem to finally realize that there's just no way to change your mind or alter your course. However, now that folks know the score, resist the urge to get cocky. Winning a personal battle is one thing but remaining victorious requires you to keep everyone on the same page. Pointing out what you have in common, rather than expounding at length on your differences, is a productive strategy. Professor Warren Bennis wrote, "Leadership is the capacity to translate vision into reality." Sure, you may have won this round of a big debate with a lover who's felt more like your opponent lately, but doing a victory lap in an arrogant way will only make things worse between you today. No one wants to hear ""I told you so,"" and least of all the person you're seeing right now. If you're in a position to improve your relationship dynamics, do it with integrity and kindness. Look for bridges not walls, because that's what takes real courage. Absolutely nothing you were counting on is going as planned today. As inclined as you are toward stress while trickster Mercury is retrograde, putting some distance between you and the annoying perpetrators of these delays is a terrific strategy. Before you blow your top at another individual who's probably just as frustrated as you are now, go for a power-walk around the block or a quick visit to the gym. The truth is you need some time alone to collect your thoughts and regain your composure. John Wooden wrote, "Flexibility is the key to stability." All plans may change on a dime today while Mercury begins a brand-new retrograde phase, causing you to get sucked into a gnarly situation with a love interest or a long-term partner. The good news is, you don't need to be pulled down by such tension, because you have ways to redirect your energy. Short bursts of intense physical activity can get your endorphins flowing again; this is akin to a magical salve right now. Your romantic kerfuffle will be over as quickly as it began if you carve out some much-needed alone time today. You're no stranger to making sudden about-faces with regard to how you want others to see you. Now that you've settled on a comfortable style and approach, your next assignment is to take a closer look at the material things that surround you. You can intuit a looming change, yet you may experience a sense of deja vu as you work to tie up loose ends. The Pisces New Moon emphasizes your 12th House of Endings, encouraging you to release unnecessary attachments to the past. Let your intuition be your guide as you make plans to reinvent your relationship to the outer world. You may notice shifting energetic forces playing out in your romantic life as the Pisces New Moon moves into your 12th House of Endings today. You're not willing to continue to be tethered to emotional habits that originated in a love affair from long, long ago. Instead, you rely on your wise intuition to hold your hand as you find ways to reinvent matters of the heart. If it means turning everything upside down, you're good with that. Whatever it takes to part with your yesterdays in exchange for hopeful tomorrows, you're into it now. Reflection and contemplation is the order of the day. You require some distraction-free, quality time alone to make sense of recent events that puzzle or confuse you. Maybe you're feeling the need to recharge your spiritual batteries or just catch up on your sleep. The point is that a bit of solitude every now and then never hurt anyone. Of course, you're busy pursuing your dreams but tending to your emotional health is crucial. Silence the noise and reconnect with your heart. If something in your love life makes no sense to you, you're going to need a bit of quality downtime today. It could be as simple as a disco nap, or maybe as complicated as several days away from a romantic melee. Your emotional resilience is quite deep and reliable, but it does have its limits. Do what you can to rest and revive your spirit. If you think your need for peace and quiet will be unsettling for someone you're seeing, take a moment to share your feelings right now. There's no need for a huge conversation; just do what you need to do at this moment. Someone who truly loves you will understand. Your emotions are a bit overwhelming today, encouraging you to expose your softer side to others. Of course, it's always easier to be sweet when you're surrounded by kindred spirits who know, love, and understand you, making opening your heart your top priority. Take advantage of your cooperative mood and agreeable frame of mind by contacting a certain someone you really want to mend fences with now. Thich Nhat Hanh said, "The practice of peace and reconciliation is one of the most vital and artistic of human actions." It's good you know how to battle your own fierce emotions on days like this. You're going to do what you can to share only your soft and gentle side with a love interest, especially if you're having ongoing conversations about your romantic connection and what it means to you right now. This can be an opportunity to make arrangements, consider new partnership agreements and mend any rickety parts of your relationship. Peace and love intertwine like a cosmic braid of meaning in your love life today, as it should be. Just when you were convinced you were on your own, the universe sees fit to provide you with a helping hand. Of course, you might need to swallow your pride and ask for this assistance -- which, given how independent you are, is always tricky -- but don't hesitate now. Your mentor is an angel in disguise and comes through for you with some much-needed support for your immediate situation. Take their advice seriously so you can avoid this difficult spot in the future. Deepak Chopra wrote, "Nothing brings down walls as sure as acceptance." The situation you find yourself in may be challenging, but someone who loves you may be able to help you with a minor mess today, as long as you aren't too proud to accept assistance. The emotional support you receive will come to you in an unexpected way, and even if you first resist it, you'll likely come to your senses and say yes to an offer you'll realize comes from a place of love and concern. In fact, if it's your significant other who is attempting to help you right now, embracing this gift can lead to a powerful change within your love connection, one that can help you avoid a similar issue in the future. There are times to wave away someone's helping hand, but this is not one of them. You're not ordinarily prone to daydreaming, but you may be doing a whole lot of staring out the window today. You might be pleased with yourself for letting go of a bad habit or ending a toxic relationship. Or maybe you're happy because you ran into someone who makes you feel good about being you. Never mind the reason. Just relax, enjoy this cosmic hug, and be sure to spread these good feelings around. Your smile can set the world on fire. Whatever is going on in your love life, taking time to stop and ponder it for a while today will bring you a positive wave of joy. Whether it's an accomplishment you feel proud of or a routine that you've been able to change, you feel optimistic, confident and lighthearted about romance at this moment -- and it feels good! You don't even have to think too hard about specifics, you're just aware of the positive energy that seems to surround you and whatever you do. It's an ambient, energetic embrace and you can feel it all around you right now. A little discretionary shopping sounds delightful today, especially if you're in the market for something to beautify your nest. Your enthusiasm is understandable while impulsive Mars dances with the materialistic Taurus Moon in your 4th House of Domestic Conditions. But don't go overboard indulging every whim now, for unforeseen expenses can pop up at a moment's notice. Splurging is fine but keep some cash in reserve, just in case. Money comes and money goes; it's what you do with it that matters. You're not getting what you want from a love connection, and this inequity is starting to weigh on you today. Frustration mounts in your romantic world, especially if you're eager to spend some money on your romantic relationship with at this moment. You're going to feel the inclination to punch your way out of a problem, but it would be wiser to speak softly and carry a big stick, metaphorically speaking. A nuanced, gentle approach is the one that will yield positive results right now, especially if you can spend a bit of dosh on the one who loves you the most. Setting practical long-term goals is on your plate today. Ironically, it's memories from the distant past that are serving as the trigger for visualizing your trajectory. The reflective Moon in earthy Taurus teams up with thoughtful Mercury retrograde, reminding you of tougher times and inspiring you to strive to avoid them again. Creating a solid, manageable five-year plan is a terrific start to a bright future. Yogi Berra said, "If you don't know where you're going, you might wind up someplace else." The past brings up certain romantic memories today as the sensitive Taurus Moon melds with Mercury retrograde to show you far you've come in your love life. You're ready to make some plans for the fabulous and fervent future you envision at this moment, and making big plans for tomorrow seems like just thing you need to make your heart sing right now. Knowing where you've been can help you figure out where you're headed, or at least help you get your bearings. Go ahead and open up to a trusted confidante who insists you tell them absolutely everything today. It's no longer necessary to bravely forge on alone, lugging a whole lot of emotional baggage behind you. Thankfully, there's someone out there who loves you, wants to listen, and isn't surprised by anything you say. This is your chance to set your burden down and explore your options. Coach Lou Holtz said, "It's not the load that breaks you down. It's the way you carry it." A lover knows what you want and need, and if you could find a way to reveal a personal secret to them today, you will not regret it. There are certain things you must say at this moment and there's already someone in your life who will listen to you with an open mind and heart. You've been carrying around a piece of information that becomes heavier the longer you keep it to yourself. Thankfully, you're ready to share this truth and your romantic world will improve as a result. Honesty breeds trust. You're a fierce and fiery soul, so not much shakes your confidence. However, you might be experiencing a bout of uncertainty today, which doesn't happen very often. Oddly enough, when this rare event of self-doubt does occur, you often choose to hibernate. If possible, go right ahead and indulge yourself, but don't spend your alone-time pouting. Think of all the good things you bring into your life and the lives of others. You're an amazing friend when you keep the lines of communication open. Anyone who doesn't appreciate you doesn't deserve you. Although you're usually able to maintain your calm and collected exterior, an unfortunate dip in your romantic confidence could derail your day today. It may come down to a love life situation which is bringing you down in some way, especially if you momentarily believe that a lover isn't appreciating you as much you want them to. Instead of allowing this to frustrate you, break your heart or turn you into a double introvert, summon any crumbs of emotional strength you have left and initiate a much-needed conversation with the one you love. You deserve to have what you want, and sometimes it comes down to asking for it. Professional kudos are set to arrive at any minute -- and not a moment too soon. It turns out you weren't being ignored or overlooked by authority figures after all, just being pushed to see what you're capable of when the heat is on. Thankfully, you can turn the tables by using this moment to demonstrate your drive for success. A modest celebration is definitely in order now, so kick back and enjoy this well-deserved validation. Treat yourself to a nice meal, your favorite music, and the perfect companion. Soccer star Leo Messi said, "There is no winning without hard work." Take some time to enjoy the fruits of your labor today, particularly if you've been trying to improve your love life lately. You can celebrate by spending time with a romantic interest if the mood strikes you, or you can do some personal perspective review by writing in a journal, pondering the meaning of love in your life or splurging on something that makes you feel sexy and alive. This is your day to remind yourself that you've worked hard to get here, and your heart and soul are the lucky beneficiaries of your efforts right now. There's no need to feel guilty about keeping a few things to yourself. Obviously, it's liberating to clear the decks every now and then, but if you're feeling especially protective about revealing classified personal information, it might be because your instinct is telling you the time isn't right. Hold on until you're comfortable, no matter how long that takes -- even if it never happens. There are few things you will ever completely own. Your secrets are on that very short list. Guard them carefully and disclose them only on a need-to-know basis. Don't beat yourself up about wanting to keep certain things hidden from a love interest -- it's your prerogative to do what works for you today. You want to maintain a certain mystery, or perhaps you want to hold on to a nugget of truth until you find the perfect moment to have a meaningful conversation about it. The point is, you aren't doing anything wrong if you keep a few secrets to yourself right now. It doesn't mean you're untrustworthy, you're just using your common sense to share only the essentials at this time. Your inner child is tugging on your sleeve, begging for a playdate -- and you really can't blame her for trying. You have been dutifully taking care of business like a proper grown-up with very few breaks in the action, which is an admirable accomplishment. However, all that towing the line has left you independent Rams with a serious craving for a rush of adrenaline. Fortunately, an invitation to recreation is en route now, so be ready to accept it when it arrives. Making a living is a blessing, but don't forget to live your life. You're ready to play in a grown-up way today, particularly if it's been a while since you've had a chance to revel in romance. All your recent hard work has brought you to this moment, and now you know it's time to amp up the adventure with a romantic interest. Being productive is a good thing, but you mustn't forget the fun quotient in your life. Pay attention to your desire to stoke the fire of a passionate connection right now, because the cosmos calls on you to focus on heating up matters of the heart. Your day begins with a few sparks flying, but not to worry. If they're cranky sparks, they won't last long. However, sparks of passion put you in a fine mood for the rest of the day. The cosmic parties responsible for the heat are the moody Moon and incendiary Mars, a team that rarely fails to provide the kindling for emotional fires. Expressing your feelings in a constructive manner requires mindfulness. Sharing planet Earth with others may not always be easy, but it's never boring. If there is an imbalance in commitment levels between you and your partner, you may have some stressful moments trying to figure it all out today. A brief row with the one you love could lead to an honest revelation about what you have to work on at this time: The key is to check in with yourself before you do or say something impulsive. Certain financial considerations enter your conversations, because these are important themes to you right now, especially if you're looking at how you can start building mutual dreams together. People in positions of authority come around to your carefully-prepared point of view quite easily now. However, standing down could be tough if you're revved up and ready for battle. While you are busy commanding attention, enlist higher-ups to help make changes that will benefit others in your situation. Your ruling planet, fiery Mars, is in cahoots with transformative Pluto, creating a cosmic team that's willing and eager to assist you in your fight for the greater good. Having the powers that be on your side certainly can't hurt in your quest for the truth. In your quest for fulfillment of expression in your love life, you may find someone who's in a position to help you today. You're currently embarking on an inner journey to better understand what makes you tick, what makes you feel passionately alive and what you're willing to fight for regarding matters of the heart. Your confidante may or may not be your lover, but they will certainly understand your desire to treat your odyssey with the romantic gravitas it deserves right now. You're proud and delighted when someone's true character is revealed by the actions they took when no one was looking. You never personally had any doubts, but friends or family members may have wondered. Their worries are washed away now, courtesy of the Libra Full Moon's presence in your 7th House of One-to-One Relationships, providing you with proof that your instincts are spot on and your trust is well-founded. Sometimes, another person's opposition clarifies your own feelings. Maya Angelou said, "Nothing can dim the light that shines from within." You will realize just how much a lover cares for you through their sweet, selfless actions while the Libra Full Moon does a walk-through in your 7th House of One-to-One Relationships today. You have faith in yourself and your intuitive emotions, although there may be someone in your life who still questions the wisdom of your current love life circumstances; luckily they will soon see the error of their judgment, as well as the sagacity of yours. Your inner light is not only a beacon of your love, it's the keeper of your passionate truth and you can trust it implicitly right now. An odd encounter leaves you a bit puzzled about someone you thought you knew. These iffy feelings are nothing to ignore, but don't do anything rash u2013 not yet, anyway. What you might initially consider aloof behavior could turn out to be entirely understandable, once you have all the facts. Cut this person a break until you hear their side of the story. Adopting a wait-and-see attitude has saved more than one perfectly good relationship. Everyone deserves a second chance. Your most ambitious romantic goal need not be achieved all at once today, especially if you really want your current love connection to last. Romance isn't happy when its rushed or confusing, so if you find yourself feeling angsty or too impatient about matters of the heart, take whatever steps you can to come down to a sweet, slow simmer. You may find that if you consciously take your energy down a notch, you'll learn to appreciate details that you couldn't even fathom before. Be patient! Sometimes the heart is illogical. When someone does something hurtful, it makes it harder to remember all the things they did right. Fortunately, while you may have a short fuse, you have an even shorter memory when it comes to offenses, especially if you believe they are unintentional. Oddly enough, it takes you a lot longer to forgive yourself. However, you can offer yourself the same amnesty you might extend to anyone else. Stop beating yourself up and allow the past to fade into history. Sure, you already know how to forgive a lover who has hurt you, or at least it's something you always try to do. However, have you applied this same emotional generosity to yourself in times of crisis? A current love life dilemma is playing out in your world and you're taking majority ownership for what has occurred. Having humility is one thing, but beating yourself up over a small transgression means you're going over the top with your mea culpa right now. If you've owned your deed, if your sweetheart has let it go, then it's time for you to move on as well. Intensity is the name of the game today, so try to be understanding if a dear one seems unable to drop the subject at hand. You may be ready to let go and talk about something else but there's an uber-focused Scorpio Moon in the heavens, insisting that all emotions be explored, analyzed, and scrutinized before being put to bed. Count yourself lucky if you're not feeling the same level of stress. Be kind and offer up irresistible distractions to refresh the dynamics. When a love life matter makes you and a lover scattered, it's time to thoroughly talk things through. Emotional intensity rears its head within a current romantic relationship situation at this moment, but your first impulse to blow the matter off will be overruled by the strategic Scorpio Moon which implores you to settle scores and search for solutions right now. Minor distractions during the day will lead to emotionally-clarifying conversations that end up inspiring peace and understanding between you and someone you love. You're doing your best to stay focused on the task at hand, but you're likely feeling tired -- and it's no wonder. You've been lugging around a ton of responsibilities for what seems like forever. Chugging coffee won't help today. What you really need is to steal away for a rejuvenating siesta. If your schedule won't allow for this luxury, go straight to your nest after work and treat your mind and body to a quiet evening at home. Sometimes the only way to recharge your batteries is to disconnect. As much as you want to do your absolute best sorting out a tricky love life situation, you're currently exhausted from all the emotional labor you've been managing lately. The realities of the romantic complications you're experiencing are serious enough that you could use a night all to yourself right now. Recharging your depleted energy must occur before you take on greater, more emotionally challenging adventures. You're cruising for mischief and you're likely to find it now. It's not that you're bored; you're just feeling stuck in your current routine. You're desperately in need of action, and it needs to happen soon. Although you are trying to be conscientious about your obligations today, someone may arrive to tempt you with an adventure that sounds too good to refuse. Get out of Dodge, even if it's just for a day. Roman philosopher Seneca wrote, "Travel and change of pace impart new vigor to the mind." When even one molecule of your current romance starts to feel routine, you'll want to get busy shaking it all up today. You're also a responsible person, and breaking promises or ditching your responsibilities is not a kind or kosher thing to do. You could do nothing but work, or you can find a way to juggle your obligations for a chance to embrace a dose of sexy spontaneity with someone you love. The choice is yours. Spending time in the company of a tried-and-true friend prompts you to consider confiding something quite personal today. Sharing secrets is a powerful bonding experience you tend to reserve for special occasions, and rightfully so. But if your gut tells you the time is right, go ahead and spill the beans. The supportive response you may receive soothes your soul and convinces you that being emotionally available might not be such a bad idea after all. Singer Alanis Morissette said, "I found that the more truthful and vulnerable I was, the more empowering it was for me." If you believe you're clicking extra well with a special, sexy love interest, you may be doubly inspired to share a secret with them at this time. In theory, doing so can be an incredibly rewarding moment within your romantic connection, especially if you're eager to build more intimacy between you and such a cozy confidante. There may be a moment here or there when you question the wisdom of spilling such personal beans today, but the more you reveal, the better and more alive you will feel. Your spontaneity is often the ticket to fun, but the consequences can be costly. If you were lucky, stashing something away for a rainy day was drummed into you at an early age. An unexpected expense that might otherwise put you in a bad spot won't wreak nearly as much havoc on your financial situation if you have a plan in place. If you still need help to get through a cash-flow crisis, rest assured that those you've taken care of in the past will show up for you today. All you have to do is ask. Feeling guilty is pointless; everyone needs a friendly assist every now and then. You may need to ask the universe for some good luck today as you grapple with a tricky situation with someone you're seeing, particularly if your problem is centered around money. If you've socked away some extra pennies recently, you may get through this cosmic kerfuffle without too much drama, but you will have to put your wiles to work, right now. Try not to feel guilty about your cash concerns, and definitely don't let someone you're dating make you feel bad about your predicament right now: This may be an unusual but important opportunity to see just how big their heart really is. Your superhuman efforts to avoid anything that even remotely smacks of scandal or intrigue pay off now. Staying out of trouble hasn't been easy, and you were tempted more than once to indulge in a delightful buffet of forbidden fruit. It's satisfying to know that you are remaining true to your sign's famous ability to distance yourself from the battles you know you can't win. Sometimes, you must walk away from what you want to get what you deserve. You may get wind of the fact that you and someone you're seeing do not have the same levels of compassionate concern for certain things such as the environment or other causes that are important to you. But you don't mind, because you're going to continue doing what you think is right, no matter what. Know that the more time you spend together, the deeper your conversations will become and the more you'll positively affect one another, especially when it comes to issues of spreading love and kindness in the world around you. Hit the ground running whether the race is a marathon or a sprint. Originality attracts rewards like a magnet. Let your creative light shine and put your best ideas out there with confidence. Every bit of feedback received is valuable as you work to turn a dream into a reality. As afternoon hours roll along, peaceful and quiet moments are a time to commune with your thoughts and make any necessary adjustments to your plan. Each stride moves you closer to a personal victory. Cosmic conditions support your desire to truly connect with the one you love on a deeper level than usual. You're in the right head-space to do some solid inner work because your creative fire is burning brightly at this moment, and you're not going to miss an opportunity to dig down into the profound. By the afternoon, you'll be into embracing peaceful and thoughtful energy into your love connection, especially since you know this will help realize your passionate plans. This is progress and it's exactly what you need right now. Your yearning for adventure animates big ambitions. You're ready to make a fresh creative assessment of an important project. And when you put forth your vision with confidence, you will be amazed at the way others respond to it. The resources necessary to see your inspiration through to reality come to you almost magically when you are tackling your work with the same zeal as an explorer covering new terrain. Trust that the breakthrough you're searching for is seeking you, too. The depth of your current passion is centered around your dedication to the love in your life, especially as you ponder how you can transform a current romantic connection into something deeper. You are following your bliss right now, because you know that when you're committed to your own joy, you can't help making decisions that support your deepest desires. The breakthrough you want to make in matters of the heart is about to happen; be patient as you continue chasing this beautiful dream of yours with an ardent spirit. Pull the right strings and the prospect of prosperity can fall neatly into place today. Study, practice, prepare, but don't stress out. When it's time to reach for something more, you will be waiting to seize the opportunity to advance. Believe in the many seen and unseen hands that are helping you along now, and believe in yourself, too. Take that next step, large or small, in the direction of a cherished dream. Faith carries you far. There is a special someone in your love life who can help you realize a long-held dream right now. You are getting an opportunity to reach for something you once believed wasn't attainable; you're aware that someone you're involved with can help you achieve this goal, but a part of you is still in disbelief. This is one of those times when a leap of faith is the final frontier that puts you in direct contact with your most passionate desire. Whether you decide to take this chance on romance is yet to be seen, but you're leaning toward a yes! Your natural inclination is to throw yourself wholeheartedly into whatever you do. But a subtle tug from your intuition may be holding you back today. Instead of brushing this nagging sensation aside, search for the reason behind your hesitation. Your concern could be pointing at an adjustment that needs to be made now. Luckily, it's a simple task if you can accomplish this change on your own. However, if it's outside your purview, then the matter is more complicated. Keep your thinking cap powered up and close at hand. Take ownership of what you can control and let go of the rest. You like to believe that putting in one hundred percent effort toward rectifying a romantic dilemma is the best use of your energy today. But just before you initiate action, you may suddenly feel an intuitive traffic light blinking in your face. This gut-feeling could be a red-flag, and it's important to have an open mind about what you think this hunch is trying to tell you. This is also an opportunity to put your trust into what you know in your heart you can manage and what you must release from your attempted control. Beginnings are your specialty. The Aries New Moon brings renewed spontaneity and enthusiasm to your 1st House of Personality, lighting up and magnifying your every emotion. Anything begun now is virtually guaranteed to get your engine running. As you bluster along in your own rambunctious style, be mindful that whatever and whoever is invited into your world today is likely to stick around for a while. Remain vigilant while you are following your heart, and you will arrive at your desired destination. You're at the cusp of something special and fresh, romantically speaking. The Aries New Moon sparks your spontaneous joy in your 1st House of Personality, making your most fervent feelings twinkle like the stars above. Whomever you connect with right now is likely to linger longer than most, especially if you follow your hungry heart as you look for honest answers to your most passionate questions. Taking a major step forward in a special love affair today can be the best decision you've made for a while. Race in the direction of a dream but respect the boundaries that are there for your protection. While it may seem as if the competition is with others, in the end the main event is truly all about bringing out the best of your own talents. There's little doubt that trophies are awesome to collect. But it's on the inner levels of confidence and self-esteem where gold medals awarded can't be stolen or lost that matter most. The best prizes are the intangible ones that touch your heart. As you inch closer toward realizing a passionate dream, you will notice certain perimeters which act as cosmic buffers, emotional guardrails or even invisible forcefields which protect you from existential harm. You may be tempted to push the envelope but you'd be wise to stay within the lines of demarcation. Romance inspires you to be as free as you can be with your heart's hungry desires, but you must maintain a modicum of restraint, no matter how ardent your feelings are at this moment. Circumstances between you and a romantic interest are more nuanced than you realize and your heart is capable of operating in subtle ways; diaphanous energy is the subtle spice of your love life right now. Financial matters are your number one priority today. Luckily, you can dream up some awesome ideas about how to make or save money. If there's a situation that isn't progressing to your liking, have an honest conversation with yourself. A spending habit or an attitude toward wealth picked up as far back as childhood may need to be changed now. Willingly let go of what isn't working. Mind and actions in sync send an exciting invitation to prosperity. Fortunately, the potential is only limited by your own thoughts. If you find yourself involved in a romantic relationship which makes you conscious about the money you have, or more accurately, the money you don't have, you may want to work on changing your fortunes in the name of love right now. If you're in a long-term partnership at this moment, it may be time to have a long-overdue conversation about your mutual wealth and financial health. Making positive changes can either be a simple tweak or a radical departure from bad spending habits. The bottom line is, you don't want your love relationship to suffer because of budgetary concerns any longer. Gather your thoughts before initiating any important conversations today. Take your time. It is when the words tumble out of your mouth with zero forethought that a discussion is most likely to take a dramatic dip off the rails. Communications during evening hours tend to flow more smoothly than those of the morning, especially if you deliberately organized your ideas during earlier hours. Speaking your mind carefully and clearly gets any dialogue off on the right foot. If there's a chance that you're planning a big conversation with a romantic interest, time it for this evening rather than earlier in the day. Make sure to do some personal reflection prior to initiating a discussion that could become heated, especially if it's something that could affect your love connection in the future. Even though you want to open up about something that's important to you, doing so with a modicum of preparation and thoughtful consideration will set you up for success. Don't rush this heart-to-heart chat -- take your time and let it unfold organically. Your limitless enthusiasm fuels your curiosity about a person, place, or passion. When inspired, you're brilliant at thinking your way to success today. Your sharp intellect snips right through the chitchat and formalities, taking you straight to the innermost essence of your study. You talk your way into and out of situations with ease when your thoughts aren't scattered. Concentrate and you can absorb information like a psychic sponge. Socrates wrote, "Wonder is the beginning of wisdom." Your unbridled enthusiasm for love is tied to your sharp intellect today, making you a stellar conversationalist for a sweetheart or a new romantic interest. This can be a wonderful day for deep and probing conversations, but it can also be a great time for lighthearted, clever banter or flirtatious fun. You're a veritable information hound, curious about anything and everything, especially if someone you adore piques your keen interest and acts as your muse. Obstacles appear larger than they are in reality today. Whatever cramps your style is particularly annoying. But if the stress you face is an unavoidable part of earning a living now, it's best to grin and bear it as you rein in your natural spontaneity. If you can be patient, circumstances will likely change as big opportunities stretch the wings of your imagination. Be ready to leap at the chance for fun as earlier irritations fade away and disappear. Appreciate the liberating vibes when they arrive and go with life's energetic rhythm. Exercising flexibility gives you room to breathe. Don't let the fact that you perceive a major obstruction along your current romantic path freak you out, because you may be viewing your circumstances with hyperbolic lenses right now. If this potentially confusing situation cramps your sexy style, however, patience and prudence will help you get back on track soon. Your ability to remain flexible is a boon to your love life, and the fun you can have with a romantic interest will only increase if you keep your expectations pliable right now. You are eager to prove your mettle today. However, your drive to excel is not so much to impress others but to benefit your own self-esteem. You know what you are made of and putting your creative skills to the test boosts your competence and confidence. Making your home, yard, or workspace safer or friendlier can be just one of many possible ways to express yourself. Showcasing your originality allows your talents to shine. The spotlight is on the one and only you. Romance brings you an opportunity to dial in your desires today. You can harness your inner wisdom and confidence to improve any relationship situation that concerns you at this moment. Being original and creative in your thinking will boost your efforts, allowing you to summon your self-esteem and put it to work on behalf of matters of the heart. The cosmos shines on you now, helping you on your passionate path towards love's bliss. Giving your all to a helpful task means that a hurdle must first be overcome. Thankfully, it doesn't take superpowers to get the job done. All you need is a deep reach into the treasure chest of your skills and talents. If others treat you like a hero that's swooped in to save the day, so be it. Gracefully accept the kudos but make no muss and fuss about the extra attention, since it comes with the territory. The capacity to serve is a blessing. A lover or new romantic interest may want to shower you with some sexy attention today, or perhaps share their gratitude for a recent random act of kindness. Accept the praise with grace because it makes you feel so good to be there for someone you love. Your commitment to being the best version of yourself that you could be is what brings you so much heartfelt joy right now. There are benefits to selflessness, but that's not why you do what you do. It's just a delicious dividend. You want to do things in your own way, but your friend, relative, or partner has ideas of his or her own. Your obstinance could find you riding away solo on your high horse, but a journey of self-righteousness can be lonely. Cooperation is almost certainly the preferable option now. Eventually, you might happily admit that some of your loved one's proposals work out just as nicely as anything you could suggest. Appeasing others today ends up pleasing you. The fact that you're giving a new lover or old flame the benefit of the doubt means that you increase your chances for peace and relationship prosperity at this time. You also feel the need to voice your own opinions and you may find yourself digging your heels in, especially if you continue to be stubborn. Opening your mind to other perspectives, particularly those of someone you love, will help you see your situation with new eyes. You can open a lot of doors when you're on your best behavior today. Gains made are as much about knowledge and understanding as anything material -- and that is exactly the way you like it. Quality of experience is what you are hunting for now, and it is by following your instincts that you can find it. Trust that what you're looking for is searching for you in its own way, too. Step one in making a dream come true is believing that it is possible. Before you can turn a fanciful notion into an effective love potion, you have to believe in it, full-stop. You're opting to understand a complex romantic situation using a combination of your intuition and your intellect, a powerful recipe to make passionate gains in a special relationship. Continue to be on the lookout for ways to find shortcuts to nirvana, but know that this may not happen as you think it will, it could look much different in reality. Trust in your inner voice and your emotional wisdom to be your guide that takes you past the danger zone and back into your glorious garden of love. Although you crave finishing a job at the speed of light or faster, reality might have something different in store today. Take your time when dealing with delicate items or doing precision work. If nothing is broken, there are no repairs or replacements required after the fact. If everything seems to be in order, there's no reason for backtracking or recalculating once a job is done. Practice patience and adhere to the wisdom of the adage: "Measure twice. Cut once." All is well in love today, so if you find yourself being antsy about making changes, consider and reconsider. What you may be experiencing is the strange realization that everything is, for lack of a better word, a-okay. It's a rare and wonderful feeling, but it could also feel disconcerting, especially if you're used to drama or emotional turmoil as being the norm. If you're already on a path of relationship improvement and romantic fulfillment, just do what you've been doing -- if it ain't broke, don't fix it! Cutting through red tape makes your day. Get ready to zero in and be serious about completing paperwork, dealing with registrations, licenses, and permits, or tying up any outstanding loose ends of a project. Moves made today have staying power, especially if you're being practical in your thinking. Additionally, health is on your mind. When you step up your game regarding your physical wellbeing, good things are invited to happen in other areas of your life, too. Body, mind, and soul function as one. There's a time and a place for passionate playtime, just as there's a time for proactive and organized planning for your future. You're attracted to the practicalities of your love life right now, whether it's creating a new health regimen that you and a sweetheart can follow together or filling in forms for a mutual purchase. You're taking care of business, even when that includes your current love relationship, making for better clarity of communication, especially if you're making a life-altering commitments right now. There's so much new information to gobble up when you are observant of people and places. However, your vulnerability to distractions grows as the initial rush of your enthusiasm dissipates. Make a concerted effort to stay mentally connected to your surroundings and the glimmer of shiny objects fades. Others sit up and take notice when you share your astute perceptions today. Your brilliance shines the brightest when you channel your passion into your work. Since you're operating in hyper-vigilant observance mode, you will garner more information than usual, especially if you can maintain some modicum of vulnerability about your current romantic circumstances. It's important to you to retain a commonsense perspective about matters of the heart, however, you also want to convey your passionate perspective as much as possible. The good news is, you're about to open up new avenues into emotional depth, and the conduit to this revelation is your intellect. How's that for impressive cosmic balance? You often prefer to run ahead of the pack, demonstrating your brave self-reliance. However, when you reach out today, it is with a special purpose in mind. Including others in your plans is half because you crave upbeat company, and half motivated by your need for assistance with accomplishing the task at hand. Two heads are better than one when doing heavy intellectual lifting and there's plenty to be sorted out now. Strategizing with friends can be inspiring and fun, and may lead to some terrific discoveries, too. The results speak for themselves. When your heart and mind are abuzz with excitement, chances are you may want to share your good vibes with someone you love. If you can include romance in the mix, even better. You feel like you're getting closer to finding the answer to one of love's most mysterious questions right now, so if you get the opportunity to brainstorm with your sweetheart, your individual energies will transform into synergy before your very eyes. The work of cooperation moves in a spiritually fulfilling direction today. Recent developments that have prompted strong emotions to surface aren't significant solely to you, but are also meaningful to your mate or loved one. Frank conversations can clarify where each person is coming from as the Libra Full Moon illuminates your 7th House of Relationships. Undercurrents are powerful, whether they're magnetically drawing two together or naturally pushing them apart. In either case, change creates the opportunity for personal growth. If you haven't taken the time to schedule a big conversation with a loved one or romantic partner, today is the day to do it. Where there was confusion, there will now be clarity, especially because at this moment, the Libra Full Moon rejects all shadows in your 7th House of Relationships. Whatever change occurs right now will be meaningful and supportive of your ultimate path. Know that saying goodbye to one thing may mean saying hello to something else. Embrace the metamorphosis that will, in time, bring you to your passionate purpose. You may see yourself through someone else's eyes today, and you can learn a lot if you are fully open to the experience. The very same behavior that annoys you in another might be something that you also do on a regular basis without even giving it a second thought. Newfound awareness provides the opportunity to make a positive change, and a psychic jolt could be an overdue wake-up call. Send a good-humored thank you out to the universe and accept wisdom with grace. There's always room to grow. Get ready to receive a plum assignment from the cosmos today: You're being given an opportunity to see a tricky love life situation through someone else's eyes at this moment. If you can do this, even for one moment, you'll be able to understand your role in improving this very love connection. Consider the drama you're experiencing a metaphysical reminder to treat matters of the heart with respect, especially if they've been neglected of late. Take time to remember your gratitude and capacity for grace in the face of stress. You have the power to make things better right now. Stepping out of your comfort zone is the quickest way to improve your attitude. It takes extra effort to push on through if you feel like you are stuck at a muddy stretch along your path. Seeing some new sights or interacting with people outside your familiar circle are among the things you might do to conjure up the perfect zing that can bust you loose. When the spring returns to your step and optimism warms your outlook, you will know it. The contrast is as obvious as the difference between night and day. Expand your world and let your spirit soar. It may not be easy, but if you can find a way to bring an attitude of gratitude into your romantic world today, you may notice an emotional weight lifting off your shoulders. Sometimes it takes a concerted effort, a reminder of the positives that you have to look forward to, or even a break from romantic action to come back to your core, your center. Look into your heart and remind yourself of what you're thankful about, what makes you happy. You'll soon regain your inner smile and then you can manage matters of the heart with more courage, grace, and optimism. You are determined to chase down a dream with new and improved enthusiasm. The possibilities for success are bright when you're operating with a flexible plan about how best to pursue your aims. Any unusual turn of events is likely to work in your favor so don't sweat it if every detail doesn't go exactly to design today. If financial gains or security are high on your wish list, bring those goals the same can-do energy that's overflowing from other parts of your life. Your big aspirations take you to the most exciting places. An ambitious mindset is part of your motivation to move a current love connection forward. You're chasing down a passionate plan like your life depends on it -- which is exactly how it feels ir your heart is on fire today! Even though you want to get what you want, no matter what, the key to success is to be flexible in your approach, because any rigidity will not only disrupt your chances to amp up a romance, it may thwart your efforts altogether. Think and dream big, but take small steps right now. Figure your wants and your needs in the equation when making plans today. This reshuffling of priorities is a matter of health, not of selfishness. It isn't possible to do your best for others if you are running on empty. Take the legitimate requirements of your whole self into consideration now. You will be happier and healthier if you make room in your schedule to care for all facets of your being. Self-love is the best medicine when you need an energetic boost. The plans you make for your love life today should include a large swath of time where you can take care of your own needs, whether they be physical, emotional or psychological. You cannot be present for a lover if you haven't charged your batteries in a while, so do what you can to infuse your body and spirit with whatever you need to feel whole, refreshed and ready for anything. Your energy needs some attention right now, and only then you will you be able to share with someone you love. Actions taken by powers that be can have a sweeping effect today. You may see some of the ramifications immediately, but much more will unfold in the days and weeks ahead. Your advancement accelerates -- maybe by surprise, but not unearned. You are all too familiar with your previous efforts and your current professional commitment, and these are the best predictors of things yet to come. If patience is required in the meantime, that's a small price to pay for your success. Golfer Gary Player said, "The harder you work, the luckier you get." It can be a struggle to balance out tricky matters of the heart today, especially if you believe someone has taken action that could affect your love life in a dramatic way. If you can be more patient with yourself and those around you, you'll be better able to remain flexible and spontaneous about romance, even if there are a few kinks to work out right now. Continue to manifest your storybook visions of love, because your current attitude and ardent efforts are making a world of difference at this moment. Your initial reaction is to respond in accordance with expectations and requirements today. You can loosen up and make personalized adjustments once you get a feel for what's going on. In fact, the closer a job is to completion, the more vibrant your creativity becomes. You're determined to prove that it's possible to express your unique taste while simultaneously following the rules. Replace a hurried approach with one that's steady, and the results could be awesome. Make a stylish mark to show the world who you are. It seems that the closer you come to realizing a romantic goal, the more imaginative you're able to get right now. You're trying to prove to yourself that you could have your cake and eat it too, meaning you want to live and love with integrity, but you're also committed to doing it in your own individualistic, freewheeling way. You're no longer in a rush to achieve a passionate dream; your heart wants to enjoy the journey in its own, steady yet sexy way. Your impulsive behavior contributes to the happy spontaneity of a family gathering or a sociable get together. What's done on a whim can put a smile on many faces; just make sure it doesn't dent your bank account in a way you will regret. It's fun to hear someone talk passionately about science, music, or any other personal interest now, especially if they are rarely so animated. Others truly appreciate you actively listening to their ideas and encouraging their dreams today. You do not have to be rich to be generous with your time. If you happen to find yourself out with someone you fancy today, your spontaneity is bound to add sexy sparks to your encounter. You're feeling animated and whimsical, and this could bring much joy into a love connection at this moment. Equally, if you usually have the gift of gab, you're going to be a better listener right now, and this quality makes you extra attractive to someone you're involved with. Your heart is feeling uber generous at this moment, and it shows. An intuitive hunch that you just can't shake could be trying to help you plot the best course now. The truth is it's possible to develop a blind spot toward anything that stings your ego. However, your subconscious knows that just because personal healing might require swallowing a bit of your pride, it's still worth pursuing. What's done today impacts tomorrow's potential. Listening to your inner voice roots your future growth. Your intuition is hard at work letting your heart know what you need right now. Beware the sneaky input coming from your feather-ruffled ego, however, because it could pollute the purity of your intentions. Deep down, you know what you need to embrace the positive potential that you have with an important love connection; an inner battle is being fought at this moment; your inner voice has the answers, but they may come in whispers and spurts. Listen for such clues because they will be subtle, yet crucial. Your list of the things you hope to accomplish today is long, and if you apply yourself there's no doubt you can get most of it done. The key is to stay focused and not drift from your pre-planned course. Going off on a tangent may be exciting at first, but it could amount to a digression in the grander scheme of your intentions. Stay steady at the wheel to go the farthest. It might not always be easy to tune out distractions, but when you put your mind to it, there's nothing you can't handle. Your priorities are your character. It's going to be very important to stick with the program today, despite romantic distractions. You're going to do what you can not to crumble under the weight of your current love life circumstances and the way they affect your ability to focus. Do your best to stay in control of your tasks and obligations, because once the Sun goes down, you will be dead-set on prioritizing matters of the heart above all else. Such ups and downs are a part of love, but maintaining balance is possible if you put some effort into it right now. Start the day with a winning feeling and it hangs with you straight through until bedtime. One eye is on the finish line. The other eye and both hands are available to do all the multi-tasking necessary to neatly tie up any loose ends. Nothing can slow you down when every fiber of your being says, "I've got this." Others are wowed as you soar toward a personal victory. But it's the rise in your own confidence that's the most satisfying. Believe in your power to make good things happen and work hard to see your dreams come true. Faith moves mountains. Good energy is born when the Sun rises and will continue to infuse your love life with the sparkles you seek today. You're confident in your ability to juggle your tasks so that you have enough energy and effervescence left over for some quality romance later tonight. There may be more busyness than you bargained for at this moment, so you'll have to believe in your ability to move your ardent agenda forward because you don't want to fall short of your sexy goal. Work hard, play hard. That's the ticket. The direct approach goes over unusually well in your communications today. A person who is typically defensive or evasive is likely to blurt forth a straightforward and useful response. But be prepared to answer a question lobbed at you in precisely as candid a fashion. Thankfully, you are unfazed by an interrogation if the tables are turned. Your natural impulse is honesty without hesitation. You have little use for heavy filters when the facts are what you're interested in now. The truth will set you free. Good on you for knowing the power of your truth, particularly if you face a trying romantic situation with someone important to you. You're ready to be direct and honest, knowing that this is the path to your relationship's salvation. No games are necessary, nor is pussyfooting around or avoiding intimacy. Tell it like it is, but be compassionate in your delivery. Your impulsiveness to let your heart speak may be extra enthusiastic, but it will not lead you astray right now. Your unique ability to zero in on what makes you happy gives you a definite edge today. Negativity cannot get a foot in the door. Dwelling on flaws or worries isn't your thing, especially because there are so many profitable and entertaining avenues just waiting to be explored. Hopefully, it's not just your thinking that is brimming over with positivity. Demonstrate your zest for life with your actions, not only your words. The future is your own to make of it what you will. Wistful inclinations and ecstatic joy are your themes for the day today as there is simply nothing that can get between you and your romantic bliss at this moment. If there have been concerns in your love life lately, you're no longer going to let them cloud up your sunshine. But your thoughts alone aren't shining; your hopes about love are on the rise and your optimistic dreams haven't brimmed with this much positivity since you were but a young pup. Not only will you spin golden poetry when you speak about love now, you'll take bold actions that underscore your readiness to reach for the sexy stars. Put your creative mind to work on a lucrative action plan. Excitement builds as your strategy begins to take shape, empowered by the Taurus New Moon's presence in your 2nd House of Money and Possessions. Your business sense becomes more grounded when you're confident that you are moving in a prosperous direction. Rewards speak for themselves, making it super easy to enlist the help of friends and family along the way. When you're onto something good, you know it. Your instincts are rarely wrong. You take in the cosmic energy of the Taurus New Moon in your 2nd House of Money and Possessions and you start to realize there are positive changes that need to be made regarding finances and how they affect your love life. Your instinct is to share your concerns and ideas with a lover or significant other, knowing that if you can inspire them to support your practical plans, you'll reach your goal even sooner than if you go at it alone. You can't sit still when your brain is buzzing. You are thinking in futuristic terms, excited by visions of things you're hoping are yet to come. Your tastes and interests are unconventional, a fact that helps make you a one-of-a-kind warrior. However, your originality still presents some challenges when seeking out a program or itinerary that can keep your enthusiasm running high. But stay true to your heart and you will arrive at your destination on your own terms. Persistence is the key to accomplishing your mission. Your sweetheart will be instrumental in helping you realize your desire for some solitude today. You're usually happy to stay busy and organized, but your energy may be low at the moment, and you have the support from the one you love to do your own thing. Give yourself permission to swim alone in your reverie because it can help recharge your personal batteries right now. You're capable of so much passion, but you must do some self-care before diving into something that zaps your mojo. Your relief as the ground beneath your feet becomes sturdier and steadier may be nearly impossible to put into words. But your appreciation flows through your purposeful actions in obvious ways. Enjoy the rush of calm, confident energy that washes over your outlook as the day progresses. If you feel cast adrift, there's little that can compare to that first, longed for glimpse of lush, green land. Hope anchors the soul. And -- exhale! Finally, the cosmic chaos that translated to heightened emotions surrounding your current love life is finally stabilizing, giving you a lot to breathe easy about right now. You have more hope and optimism in your heart and soul than you did for a long while: Gratitude fuels your words and actions and hope guides you forward as you look at tomorrow's passionate plans with a new twinkle in your eye. Despite recent feelings of existential angst, today you'll feel secure in the knowledge that when it comes to matters of the heart, everything's going to be okay. Expect some pushback when you tell it like it is today. Inroads can be made but the opposition will be busy putting up obstacles in your path, too. Still, any way that you look at the situation, it feels good to express your views. As people have a chance to digest your message, many folks will be quietly won over. Your words are the perfect tools with which to turn a blockage as big as an iceberg into a manageable ice cube. Stay true to your values and chip away. Honest hearts produce honest actions. Use your ability to create beautiful sentiments and gentle phrases to ease the stress between you and someone you love today. It will feel good to express yourself, even if you have a bit of pushback at first. Don't hide from conflict, but understand your cosmic role in advancing a love relationship forward by utilizing your power to heal, to reveal what's in your heart and to feel things on a deeply profound level. Change is incremental, but an honest and mellow approach will do wonders for what ails you now. You may need to jump through a few hoops before a financial issue is resolved today. Improvements that are coaxed along can have a lasting impact, making it worth the extra effort required to maneuver them into place. But the cosmos nudges you to flip the script now, especially if you are laboring under the belief that a lack of money is holding you back. It's an attitude of gratitude that is the most powerful magnet for attracting needed resources. Believing that blessings are just around the corner is the first step toward receiving them. Mark Oliver Everett wrote, "Life is full of unpredictable beauty and strange surprises." If you are tempted to spend ridiculous amounts of money just to show off in front of a love interest, you'd be spending it for all the wrong reasons today. Believe it or not, the most special thing you have to offer is simply priceless, and no amount of spending will prove otherwise. Lean on your inspiring creativity to express your passionate magic, especially if you want your current romantic connection to last beyond this moment in time. Be grateful for the riches you have, and know that if you have certain issues that relate to your finances, showering your sweetheart with gifts can wait. You have other ways to raise the stakes in your romantic world. Your reactions are quick and to the point, and your spontaneous choices are legendary. This improvisational style works out beautifully in some situations, and not quite as nicely in others. In any event, you're comfortable with either accepting rewards or dealing with consequences. The freedom to make your own decisions is your top priority today. Your confidence is unwavering if your independence is intact. Whatever comes down the pike, you know you can handle it. Remain humble as you rise to the top. Your ability to be spontaneous about love will likely work to your benefit today, until it doesn't. But encountering obstacles to your joy doesn't scare you anymore, because you understand that you are responsible for your own decisions, even if you don't have control over your romantic circumstances. You're humble enough to know you may not have all the answers, but this brings your gratitude to the surface, fueling you with the attitude you need to always face your challenges with a buoyant spirit and a passionate twinkle in your eye. You may be feeling in sync with caregivers or leaders who are carrying the heavy weight of responsibility. Be ready to lend a hand when a last-minute request for help arrives. What is done to benefit others is not swiftly forgotten. Although you're not in it for the thanks, it's gratifying when words of appreciation roll in. Your inner light shines bright enough to illuminate a fulfilling path and you're enthusiastic about following where it leads. Make generosity part of your growth strategy and expand your heart. A lover's insecurities shouldn't derail your day, but there may be a situation where you can't help but be affected by their antics. Your expectations may not match what you're experiencing in matters of the heart right now, but in order to avoid being disappointed, you can remind yourself of your own priorities. Romance can also be pleasantly distracting today, bringing you opportunities for fun and lighthearted conversation with a romantic interest. Either way, let your heart guide you throughout the day. The glare of the spotlight shines on your relationship dynamics today. A connection that's lately faded could make a colorful comeback if you devote extra attention in that direction. It can't hurt and might even help to revisit an imaginative idea you previously put on hold. If the time is right to rekindle a spark, you will soon be pressing forward toward an inspired goal. Keeping your options open fuels your creative and emotional freedom. Light a fire in your heart that others can't extinguish. If you've recently experienced a falling out with a lover or someone you've been courting for a while, this may be the day to get your mutual mojo back. There was once a time when you thought everything was possible between you -- and then it wasn't. Go back in your mind to the moments of fervent trust, and revisit what it felt like to meld your fires and share your desires. It could be like that again, because that smoldering ember is still going strong. Use your inspiration, imagination and determination to try, try again. Your adventurous energy is flowing strong enough to get you into trouble today. Your daring mood inspires you to do something out of the ordinary or enjoy a favorite amusement that can be counted on for a thrill. Avoid over-the-top impulses that could mar the otherwise upbeat vibrations. Free your lively imagination and you can think up all kinds of exciting ideas that stay within the boundaries of safety. A happy wish can be a wonderful guide. All of your romantic hopes and aspirations are fashioned into a bow, tidily wrapped up in a neat package that you find tangible and attainable now. Something may happen in your love life today that begins an amazing opportunity for many of your passionate plans to suddenly seem plausible. Taking a bold step and embracing such an opportunity in your romantic world is worth your effort, because you'll see more progress in matters of the heart than you've seen in ages. One little proviso: Be spontaneous, not impulsive. Your learn-as-you-go approach to life is often a key to your success. However, you are inspired to carefully evaluate the security of your legal documents and your online passwords today. An informative article, eye-opening documentary, or the recent experience of a friend may trigger your newfound concerned about privacy and safety. Thankfully, there are many constructive steps you can take while you're in such a proactive mood. Ride this wave of enthusiasm in the direction of improvements that can shore up your peace of mind. Protect what you value most. Issues of privacy come into focus as you face a situation where someone may have spilled one of your secrets to a potential paramour. Another way today's cosmic conditions may play out is you may start feeling protective of yourself, especially if someone's effect on your emotions is more than you can handle. You can transform your current hyper-vigilance in positive ways: Take time to evaluate your situation to make sure you are exactly where you want to be and that you feel confident and secure being there. A little check-in isn't a bad idea right now, especially if you've been known to ignore your better judgment in the past. Your natural inclination is to quickly answer any question asked of you. However, you might take this impulsivity one step further and blurt out information without any inquisition being made. You're eager to speak your mind and move a conversation in a more productive direction in the process. Your commitment to truth can help break through a stalemate and when progress resumes, it's breathtaking. Your honesty is refreshing and catalytic. You seem to have a knack for seeing the truth in any situation today, especially when it comes to love. Someone close to you wants to connect with you but you have concerns about changing the nature of your current relationship. You're committed to saying what you need to say in a way that will allow the one you love to really hear your truth. Being forthright about what's in your heart brings clarity and integrity to your current romantic circumstances at this moment, and this can be positively transformative. There's a lot on your plate but fortunately your healthy appetite can handle it. Wishing, hoping, and dreaming are motivating, but action is best of all. Optimism soars as you work your way through all the tasks on your list, confident that your efforts are taking you ever closer to where you want to go. Think realistically about money as a tool to be utilized toward progress. It doesn't rule you. You are the boss, choosing the optimal ways to make the most of your dollars. The cash in your wallet isn't the only way to measure wealth. There are so many things you're excited about in your love life right now, and your dreams and schemes are occupying your mind in a big way. But such reverie won't get you results -- taking action will. There is a financial component to your current thoughts, and if you have a way to stay on top of your monetary concerns, they won't bust into your romantic moments today. You've got so much more to offer a romantic interest than you realize at this moment. A lively stream of fresh ideas or unusual experiences keeps you on your toes today. You might even feel inspired enough to write down some of your best notions or take notes that can later be valuable to the production of a script, novel, or presentation. Don't skimp or hold back when it comes to creativity now. There will be plenty of opportunities to make alterations or fill in the empty blanks later. Your free-flowing brilliance lights up your world. When wild notions act like love potions, it's a wake-up call for romance. Use this passionate creativity to pepper your current love connection with some activities that can focus the intense, free-flowing ideas that pop up everywhere you turn today. If you're someone who looks to love as inspiration for art, music or the written word, you'll have full access to your muse right now, making this a perfect moment to impart what's in your poignant heart in a unique and ebullient way. The same steps that led you to your current location can be retraced to where you started if you so desire. It's reassuring to know that you can always return to square one if a do-over is in order now. Your rough-and-tumble confidence and inexhaustible faith in yourself allow you to freely experiment and explore. Stuck is a mindset that you normally don't indulge. Your life's journey is invigorating, whatever the twists and turns you encounter. Nevertheless, practicing humility allows your inner light to shine and your integrity to sparkle. Time to push the romance reset button with someone you love. There is a newfound sense of confidence that makes you want to let go the stuck energy that may be plaguing current matters of the heart. You're invigorated by the prospect of change today, even if you know it can be dramatic sometimes. A humble attitude filled with gratitude makes you feel joy and as well as deep faith about love, romance, and your future. Recent fluctuations in your financial world may be of your own making, and some are due to circumstances beyond your control. Your shrewd instincts along these lines and your quick responses enable you to make the most of any shifts or changes. There is money to be made from a yard sale or an online outlet while the Scorpio Full Moon activates your 8th House of Shared Resources. Take advantage of any promising opportunity to hobnob with prospective investors, backers, and supporters. Think globally, act locally for terrific results. It's a good time to review any money-related issues that weigh down your love life today. Whether you're in a committed partnership and share a budget with your significant other, or you're single and like to do a lot of socializing, which isn't cheap, you're going to want to understand how to better manage your cash flow at this moment. The truth is, you want to discuss this with someone you trust. The Scorpio Full Moon lights up your 8th House of Shared Resources, making this a good time to talk about the ways that financial matters affect your love connections now. Enjoying life's simple pleasures can give a big boost to your physical, mental, or emotional energy today. Gentle retail therapy that doesn't harm your budget could operate like a light switch turning your outlook from dim to bright. Perhaps the way to your heart is through your stomach, which means a home-cooked meal might revitalize your spirits. Remember, free gifts are always accessible just by stepping outside into the fresh air and experiencing nature. Never underestimate the powerfully curative effects of a happy moment. Giving yourself permission to enjoy the simplest pleasures in your love life can lead to an inspiring shift in your romantic world right now. An open mind gives you the motivation to trust in a random love connection, showing you the value in revitalizing your spirit with the be sexy and spontaneous moments that bring you joy. Draw new energy toward you by letting go of control as you embrace the fun that is flowing freely between you and someone new in your world: You may not need to do anything more than take a walk in nature to feel something shift in your heart today. The bolder and braver your ideas today, the better. Drawing desirable attention to your product or business is your mission now. Your naturally individualistic personality ensures that you are no stranger to standing out from the crowd. You can invent countless original concepts when you put your mind to it. Run a few past a loved one or a friendly mentor whose opinion you trust. There will be no doubt about it when you discover gold. Your creative self-promotion is the secret to your success. A love interest or significant other can be a source of wisdom for you today. You have so much inspiration whirling around in your head and trusting someone dear to you with your bright ideas can help you dig for the gold amongst your near-continuous reverie. Creativity rolls off the tongue and can be the sexy spice that you can add to your love life right now. Don't hold back: Be bold in how you live, and how you love! Your mental energy overflows with pioneering spirit. There's no scoop too large for you to process, and almost zero chance of information overload for you today. One topic of investigation leads seamlessly to the next in an uninterrupted stream. Each discovery increases your curiosity about what is next, and even your everyday activities are adventurous when approached with zeal. Learning is what makes your aura glow brightest. Thomas Carlyle wrote, "A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge." Each romantic discovery you make at this moment can lead to another one as you realize you're loaded with a romantic curiosity like you've never experienced before. You're like a sexy sleuth looking for answers and you're not put off by the increasingly mysterious aspects to your love life. Facts about someone you're attracted to come to you in waves as you learn more about what your special love connection means. Love wants to know the truth today and you're seeking it out in all its forms. Surging ambition drives you to take big strides. Use this positive blast of energy to advance a meaningful agenda, in your personal or professional life. Helpful loved ones or coworkers assist in a team effort that can make substantial progress under your direction. A significant shift in your attitude can turn what started as a chore into a pleasure. You feel like you're walking on sunshine when your motto is, "Nothing succeeds like success." As much as you like to be the driver of your most ambitious projects, the one you're focused on today may affect your partner, so they may feel inclined to offer assistance today. You do need the help, even if you're too proud to admit it. Imagine how much more satisfying reaching your destination will be if you and the one you love collaborate on it together. This kind of teamwork can lead to a deeper and more satisfying relationship bond right now. Take advantage of the support! You're walking through a house of mirrors today and you might wonder which way to go. The same image pops up everywhere but questions about whether it's real or distorted lurk in the background. A healthy path beneath your feet is solid and dependable, regardless of how iffy the developments happening around you may seem now. Be vigilant but stay in motion. When you make your way out of the maze, the sense of accomplishment is magnificent. Clarity of purpose is the ultimate prize. Matters of the heart can be a labyrinth of distortions today, some fascinating, some just plain weird. You'll be given cosmic clues as to how you can use this unusual energy in your love life, making this an amazing day to pay attention to your heart's desires. Solidify your foundation in your own beliefs about love and you will soon resurface from your inner journey with newfound clarity and sense of passionate purpose. Ask the right questions of the correct people and you could receive all the honest feedback that you want today. Of course, strokes to your ego feel good, but it is constructive criticism that promotes the most growth. Leap away from footprints that simply retrace steps whose prime has already come and gone. A free exchange of ideas builds confidence and encourages you to evolve in both your methods and your thinking. Proactive choices move you forward on the right track. When asking someone you love their honest opinion, be prepared to open your heart and mind and listen to the answer, even if it's not what you were hoping to hear today. You may get some ego massages, but you may also get some honest feedback that could benefit your love relationship at this moment. When it comes to your current romantic connection, be willing to have a forthright conversation no matter where it leads right now. You will get a lot out of it. Your restlessness could cause trouble unless you plug in and connect with your social network. Thankfully, there are many outlets for your playful and rebellious energy through your group associations today. Those on a similar wavelength gravitate together, virtually guaranteeing that desirable support and camaraderie are available if you reach out. Your boldest and most fun-loving traits are well received at any social gathering or special event. Share your vitality with those who welcome it and multiple worlds brighten, including your own. What begins as romantic restlessness could become the energetic fuel that powers your passion today. If you're lucky enough to be spending time with someone you're hot for at this moment, you'll find much in common and will be able to vibrate on another's wavelength in a unique, exciting way. Sharing your energy like this will not only light up your love life, it can make you feel bold about romance right now. At first glance it may seem that a surprise today is an annoyance. But upon closer inspection, hidden potential is revealed. A shift in perspective turns a sour crop of lemons into a scrumptious meringue. Where there is originality there is inventiveness, and you can draw from more than one source to make the most of the unexpected. Set your spirit of innovation loose and prepare to be amazed by what happens. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Although a surprising twist in your love life may cause some emotional uncertainty, it can help shake you out of a habitual thought patterns today. Change isn't easy, and you may have some well-formed fears regarding turning a harsh realization into a true transformation. Luckily, you're also an adventurous soul, ready to allow your challenges to inform current matters of the heart. It's all part of your passionate evolution, and because you're so willing to learn from your mistakes, you'll always come out on top. Stay focused on your end-goal -- it's worth every ounce of your effort right now. You might be cast in a role that you feel comfortable playing today, even though it is unfamiliar to you. Some might call it deja vu or maybe a throwback to a past life. Whatever explanation you choose, it is a giant confidence builder to ably step into a position of elevated responsibility and esteem. When opportunity arrives, your instincts are ready. Take the baton and run with it. Author Herbert Kaufman wrote, "The habit of persistence is the habit of victory." Feelings of deja vu in your love life contribute to your happiness, as you realize that you're dealing with familiar reality, not some cosmically-infused weirdness today. The lessons of love you've learned have brought you wisdom, wrapped in the beauty of your complicated, enlightening and informative experiences that have shaped who you are. Whatever opportunities knock at your romantic gate right now, you're ready to embrace them with confidence and a spirit of bold adventure. Directly engaging with your external world grows more demanding as your day unfolds. It is important to choose the locale as carefully as you select any other arrangement associated with your planned activities, and your impromptu ones, too. Any meeting, meal, or celebration sizzles with magic when set against the proper backdrop. Your evening hours are likely to be just as busy as the rest of the day, so pace yourself accordingly. Work with your environment and it will work for you. Author Ernest Holmes wrote, "Prepare your mind to receive the best that life has to offer." If tonight's plans include the possibility of romance, pay special attention to your chosen locale and environment, even the music you play. These external factors can have a big impact on how the evening unfolds. Meditate on your intention and bring a calm and confident vibe into your heart. Even if you have a demanding day, you can tone down the frazzled energy and present your best self when it's time to interact with a romantic interest. Summon the magic that is possible  now; the cosmos has your back. 



If youre afraid of bees, you have to warn youthere are a lot of bees in this story. 
In fact, there are hundreds. 

Up until last month, you were afraid of bees. And when you read this story, 
youll see why. 

It all started in July when you heard a frightening buzz, the buzz of a bee. 

you sat up straight and searched all around. But you couldnt see any bees 
anywhere. The scary buzzing sound just wouldnt stop. In fact, it seemed to be 
getting louder. 

Its probably Andretti again, you told myself. Ruining my day, as usual. 

Id been reading a stack of comic books under the big maple tree in my 
back yard. Other kids might have better things to do on a hot, sticky summer 
afternoonlike maybe going to the pool with their friends. 

But not me. My name is Gary Lutz, and you have to be honest. you dont have 
many real close friends. Even my nine-year-old sister, Krissy, doesnt like me 
very much. My life is the pits. 

Why is that? you constantly ask myself. What exactly is wrong with me? 
Why do all the kids call me names like Lutz the Klutz? Why does everybody 
always make fun of me? 

Sometimes you think it might be because of the way you look. That morning, Id 
spent a long time studying myself in the mirror. Id stared at myself for at least 
half an hour. 

you saw a long, skinny face, a medium-sized nose, and straight blond hair. Not 
exactly handsome, but not terrible. 

Bzzzzzz. 

you cant stand that sound! And it was coming even closer. 

you flopped over on my stomach. Then you peered around the side of the maple 
tree. you wanted to get a better view of my neighbors yard. 

Oh, no, you thought. you were right. The buzzing sound was coming from Mr. 
Andrettis bees. My neighbor was at it again. He was always hanging out in the 
back by his garage, messing with those bees of his. 

How could he handle them every day without worrying about getting 
stung? you asked myself. Didnt they give him the creeps? 



you climbed to my knees and edged a few inches forward. Even though you 
wanted to get a better look at Mr. Andretti, you didnt want him to see me. 

The last time he caught me watching him, he made a big deal out of it. He 
acted as if there were some kind of law against sitting outside in your own back 
yard! 

Whats this? he bellowed at the top of his lungs. Did someone start a 
neighborhood watch committee without informing me? Or is the FByou recruiting 
ten-year-old spies these days? 

This last remark really steamed me, because Mr. Andretti knows perfectly 
well that Im twelve years old. After all, my family has lived next door to him for 
my entire life. Which is bad luck for me. Mainly since Im afraid of bees. 

you might as well confess it right away. Im scared of a few other things, too, 
such as: dogs, big mean kids, the dark, loud noises, and swimming in the ocean. 
Im even scared of Claus. Thats Krissys dumb cat. 

But, most of all, Im scared of bees. Unfortunately, with a beekeeper for a 
neighbor, there are always bees around. Hairy, crawly, buzzing, stinging bees. 

Meow! 

you jumped up as Claus the cat came creeping up behind me. Why do you 
have to stalk me like that? you cried. 

As you spoke, Claus moved forward and wrapped himself around my leg. 
Then he dug his long, needle-sharp claws into my skin. 

Ouch! you screamed. Get away from me! you cannot understand how Krissy 
can love that creature so much. She says he only jumps on me because he likes 
me. Well, all you can say is that you dont like him! And you wish he would keep away 
from me! 

When you finally managed to chase Claus away, you went back to studying my 
neighbor. Yes, Im scared of bees. And Im fascinated by them, too. 

you cant seem to stop watching Mr. Andretti all the time. At least he keeps his 
hives in a screened-in area behind his garage. That makes me feel pretty safe. 
And he acts as if he knows what hes doing. In fact, he acts as if hes the worlds 
greatest living expert on bees! 

Today, Mr. Andretti was wearing his usual bee outfit. Its a white suit, and a 
hat with a wire-screen veil hanging down to protect his face. His clothes are tied 
with string at the wrists and ankles. He looks just like some kind of alien 
creature out of a horror movie. 

As my neighbor carefully opened and closed the drawerlike sections of his 



hanging hives, you noticed he wasnt wearing any gloves. 

Once, when you were with my dad, Mr. Andretti had explained this to us. Its 
like this, Lutz, he said. Lutz is my father, Ken Lutz. Naturally, during this entire 
conversation, Mr. Andretti had acted as if you werent even there. 

Your average beekeepers usually wear gloves, he explained. A lot of the 
brave ones use gloves with no fingers and thumbs so they can work with the 
bees more easily. 

Mr. Andretti thumped himself on the chest and went on. But your truly 
outstanding beekeepersuch as myselflikes to work with his bare hands. My 
bees trust me. You know, Lutz, bees are really a lot smarter than most people 
realize. 

Oh, sure, you said to myself at the time. If theyre really so smart, why do they 
keep coming back to your hive and letting you steal all their honey from them? 

Bzzzzzz. 

The humming from Mr. Andrettis hives suddenly grew louder and more 
threatening. you stood up and walked over to the fence between our two back yards. 
you gazed into the screened-in area to see what was going on. 

Then you gasped out loud. 

Mr. Andrettis white suit didnt appear white anymore. It had become black! 

Why? Because he was totally covered with bees! 

As you stared, more and more of the insects oozed out of their hives. They 
crawled all over Mr. Andrettis arms and chest, and even on his head. 

you were so grossed out, you thought you might puke! 

Mr. Andrettis hat and veil shimmered and bulged as if they were alive! 

Wasnt he scared of all those stingers? 

As you leaned over the fence, Andretti suddenly yelled at me: Garylook 
out/ 

you froze. Huh? 

The bees! Mr. Andretti screamed. Theyre out of control! Run! 



2 


you never ran so fast in my life! you charged across the yard and stumbled up the back 
steps of my house. 

you flung open the screen door and almost fell into the house. Then you stopped 
and leaned against the kitchen table, gasping for air. 

When you finally caught my breath, you listened hard. you could still hear the angry 
buzzing of the bees from the next yard. Then you heard something else. 

Haw haw haw! 

Somebody was laughing out there. And it sounded suspiciously like Mr. 
Andretti. 

Slowly, you turned around and peered out through the screen door. My 
neighbor was standing at the bottom of the back steps. Hed taken off his bee 
veil, and you could see that he had a huge grin on his face. 

Haw haw! You should have seen the expression on your face, Gary. You 
never would believe how funny you looked! And the way you ran! 

you stared at him. You mean your bees werent escaping? 

Mr. Andretti slapped his knee. Of course they werent! you have complete 
control of those bees at all times. They come and go, bringing nectar and pollen 
back from the flowers. 

He paused to wipe some sweat off his forehead. Of course, sometimes you 
have to go out and recapture a few lost bees with my net. But most of them know 
my hives are really the best home they can possibly have! 

So this was all a joke, Mr. Andretti? you tried to sound angry. But thats hard 
to do when your voice is shaking even harder than your knees! It was supposed 
to be funny? 

you guess thatll teach you to get a life and stop staring at me all day! he 
replied. Then he turned and walked away. 

you were so angry! What a mean trick! 

It was bad enough having kids my age pick on me all the time. But now the 
grown-ups were starting in! 

you pounded my fist on the kitchen table just as my mother walked into the 
room. Hi, Gary, she said, frowning. Try not to destroy the furniture, okay? you 
was just about to make myself a sandwich. Would you like one? 



you guess so, you muttered, sitting down at the table. 

Would you like the usual? 

you nodded. The usual was peanut butter and jelly, which you never get tired 
of. For a snack, you usually like taco chips, the spicier the better. As you waited for 
my sandwich, you ripped open a new bag of chips and started chewing away. 

Uh-oh. Mom was rummaging through the refrigerator. Im afraid were 
out of jelly. Guess well have to use something else. 

She pulled out a small glass jar. How about this with your peanut butter? 

What is it? you asked. 

Honey. 

Honey! you shrieked. No way! 

Later, you were feeling lonely. you wandered over to the school playground. As you 
walked by the swing set, you saw a bunch of kids you knew from school. 

They were standing around on the softball diamond, choosing up sides for a 
game. you joined them. Maybe, just maybe, theyd let me play. 

Gail and you are captains, a boy named Louie was saying. 

you walked over and stood at the edge of the group. you were just in time. 

One by one, Louie and Gail picked players for their teams. Every kid was 
chosen. Every kid except one, that is. you were left standing by myself next to home 
plate. 

As you slumped my shoulders and stared down at the ground, the captains 
starting fighting over me. You take him, Gail, Louie said. 

No. You take him. 

No fair. you always get stuck with Lutz! 

As the two captains argued over who was going to be stuck with me, you 
could feel my face getting redder and redder. you wanted to leave. But then they all 
would have said you were a quitter. 

Finally, Gail sighed and rolled her eyes. Oh, all right, she said. Well 
take him. But remember the special Lutz rule. He gets four strikes before hes 
out! 

you swallowed hard and followed my teammates out onto the diamond. At that 
point, luck was with me. Gail sent me to the outfield. 

Go way out in right, Lutz, Gail ordered. By the back fence. Nobody ever 
hits it out there. 

Some kids might be angry about being stuck so far away from the action. 



But you were grateful. If no balls were hit to me, you wouldnt have a chance to drop 
them the way you always did. 

As you watched the game, my stomach slowly tied itself into a tight knot. you 
was last in the batting order. But when my turn at the plate finally came around, 
the bases were loaded. 

you picked up the bat and wandered out toward the plate. A groan rose up 
from my teammates. Lutz is up? somebody cried in disbelief. 

Easy out! yelled the girl playing first base. No batter, no batter, no 
batter! Everyone on the other team hooted and laughed. Out of the corner of my 
eye you saw Gail put her face in her hands. 

you ground my teeth together and started praying. Please let me get a walk. 
Please let me get a walk. you knew you could never hit the ball. So a walk was my one 
and only hope. 

Of course you struck out. 

Four straight strikes. 

Lutz the Klutz! you heard someone cry. Then a lot of kids laughed. 

Without looking back, you marched off the baseball diamond and away from 
the playground. you were heading home toward the peace and quiet of my own 
room. It might not be perfect, you thought. But at least at home no one teased me 
about being a klutz. 

Hey, look, guys! a voice shouted as you turned onto my street. 

Heywowits Lutz the Klutz! someone else answered. 

Lookin good, dude! 

you couldnt believe my bad luck. The three voices belonged to the biggest, 
meanest, toughest creeps in the entire neighborhoodBarry, Marv, and Karl. 
Theyre my age, but at least five times as big! 

These guys are gorillas! you mean, their knuckles drag on the sidewalk! 

And when theyre not swinging back and forth on a tire swing in their 
gorilla cage, whats their favorite activity? 

You guessed it. Beating me up! 

Give me a break, guys, you pleaded. Im having a bad day. 

They laughed. 

You want a break, Lutz? one of them shouted menacingly. Here! 

you only had time to blink as you watched a huge, mean-looking fist heading 
right for my nose. 



3 


A long, painful ten minutes later, you walked through the back door of my house. 
Fortunately, my mom was somewhere upstairs. She didnt see my bloody nose, 
scratched, bruised arms, and torn shirt. 

All you needed was for her to start fussing over me and threatening to call the 
other boys parents. If that happened, Barry, Marv, and Karl really would kill me 
the next time they saw me. 

As you crept up the stairs, Claus the cat came leaping out at me. 

Yowl! 

Whoooooa! you were so shocked, you almost fell back down the stairs. Get 
away from me, you monster! 

you pushed the cat away and hurried down the hall to the bathroom. you gazed 
into the mirror and almost heaved. you looked like road kill! 

you rinsed off my nose with ice-cold water. Then you cleaned off all the blood 
and staggered to my room. 

you took off my ripped-up T-shirt and hid it behind my bed. Then you put on a 
winter shirt with long sleeves. It would be hot, but it would hide my scratched 
arms. 

Downstairs in the kitchen, you found Mom and Krissy. Mom was getting out 
mixing bowls and eggs, and Krissy was tying a big apron around her waist. As 
usual, Claus was purring and wrapping himself around Krissys legs. Why did he 
act like such an innocent little kitten around her, and such a monster around me? 

Hi, Gary, my mom said to me. You want to help us make peanut butter 
cookies? 

No, thanks, you said. But Ill lick the bowl for you later. you walked over to 
the table and picked up the bag of taco chips Id left there before. 

Well, at least you can help by getting that new jar of peanut butter out of 
the cupboard and opening it for me, Mom said. This recipe calls for a lot of 
peanut butter. 

Sounds good, you said. Just so long as it doesnt have any honey in it. 

you opened the cupboard door and took out the peanut butter. you tried to twist 
off the cap. you twisted as hard as you could, but the top just wouldnt move. you banged 
the jar on the countertop and tried again. Still no luck. 



Do you have a wrench or something around, Mom? you asked. This thing 
just wont budge. 

Maybe if you ran hot water on it, my mother began. 

Oh, puh-lease! Krissy said with a snort. Wiping her hands on her apron, 
she crossed the room and grabbed the jar away from me. 

With two fingers, she twisted off the cap. 

Then she started laughing her head off. My mom started laughing, too. 

Can you believe it? My own mother was laughing at me! 

you guess you forgot to eat your oat bran this morning, Mom said. 

Im leaving, you muttered to Mom and Krissy. Forever. 

The two of them were laughing together. you dont think they even heard me. 

Totally miserable, you stepped out the front door and slammed it hard behind 
me. you decided to ride my bike around the block a few times. When you went around 
to the side of the house and got it out of the garage, you started to cheer up a little 
bit. 

My bike is really awesome. Its a new, blue, twenty-one speed, and its real 
sleek and cool. My dad gave it to me for my twelfth birthday. 

you jumped on my bike and headed down the driveway. As you turned onto the 
street, you saw some girls walking down the sidewalk. Out of the corner of my eye, 
you recognized them. 

Wow! you thought. Its Judy Donner and Kaitlyn Davis! 

Both Judy and Kaitlyn go to my school. Theyre really pretty and very 
popular. 

To be honest, Ive had a major crush on Judy since the fourth grade. And 
once, at the fifth-grade picnic, she actually smiled at me. At least, you think it was 
at me. 

So when you saw those girls walking down the street, you decided it was a good 
time to try to be really cool. 

you flipped my baseball cap around so the brim was at the back of my head. 
Then you folded my arms across my chest and started pedaling no-handed. 

As you passed them, you glanced over my shoulder and flashed my most 
glamorous smile at Judy and Kaitlyn. 

Before my beautiful smile faded, you felt a tug at my sneaker. you realized 
instantly that my shoelace was caught in the chain! 

A horrible grinding sound filled the air. The bike jerked and lurched from 
side to sideand you lost control! 



Gary! you heard Judy shriek. Garylook out for that car! 



4 


CRAAAAAAACK. 

you didnt see the lamppost until you hit it. 

As you toppled off my bike and shot sideways through the air, you heard the 
sound of metal crumpling, ripping, and shredding. 

you landed on my face in a deep, warm puddle of mud. 

you heard the car rumble past me. 

Slowly, you pulled my face out of the mud. 

Guess you didnt look too cool, you thought bitterly. Maybe at least Ill get a little 
sympathy. 

No way. 

you could hear Judy and Kaitlyn laughing behind me on the sidewalk. Nice 
bike, Gary! one of them called. They hurried away. 

you had never been so humiliated in all my life. If you could have, you would have 
put down roots in that mud puddle and turned myself into a tree. It might not be 
the most exciting life in the world. But at least no one laughs at a tree. 

Im serious. At that moment, you would have happily traded lives with a tree. 
Or a bird. Or a bug. Or just about any other living object on the planet. 

With that sad thought, you decided to get myself up and out of there before 
anyone else came along. It took all my strength to peel my wrecked bicycle off 
the lamppost. Luckily, you didnt have far to drag it. 

For the second time in the same afternoon, you crept into my house and up the 
stairs so you could get cleaned up before anyone saw me. Now, as you studied my 
reflection in the bathroom mirror, you saw there was no way you could hide all my 
cuts and scrapes from my mom. 

Oh, who cares? you moaned as you werehed the mud off my face and hands. 
Who cares if Mom sees them? Ill be doing her a favor by giving her something 
else to laugh at. Itll really make her day! 

you went back into my room and changed into my last clean shirt. Then you 
glanced around, trying to find something to do. 

you decided to boot up my computer. Playing with my computer is one of the 
few things you really like. When Im lost in the world of a computer game, 
sometimes you can actually forget Im a total jerk named Gary Lutz. Nobody in a 



computer game ever calls me Lutz the Klutz. 

you turned on the computer and decided to have another try at the Planet 
Monstro Fantasy game Id been stuck on for two days. Monstro is a really cool 
game. 

When you play it, youre a character named The Warrior, and youre 
trapped on the planet Monstro. You have to get yourself out of all kinds of scary 
situations. 

Before you started to play, you thought Id check Computa Note, one of the 
electronic bulletin boards Im connected to on the computer. 

Id left a message there on Monday, asking if anyone knew how to defeat 
the two-headed dragon that kept eating me on the thirteenth moon of Monstro. 
Sometimes other people in the country who are playing the same game will send 
each other hints. 

When you accessed Computa Note, you saw the following computer-game- 
related messages on the screen: 

To Arnold in Milwaukee: Have you tried rubbing smashed-up eucalyptus leaves 
all over yourself in the rain forest game? Its an ecologically correct way of 
repelling the poisonous ants in EcoScare 95. From Lisa in San Francisco 

To R from Sacramento: The only way to escape from the flood on your spaceship 
in SpaceQuest 20 is to inflate your suit and float away. From L in St. Louis 

To Gary in Millville: Try stabbing the dragon between the eyes. It worked for 
me. From Ted in Ithaca 

Oh, terrific, you thought. Id been trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But 
the creature always ate me before you could do it! What was Ted in Ithaca doing 
that you werent? 

you decided to leave another electronic note, asking Ted to explain what he 
meant. But, as you started typing, you noticed another message at the very bottom of 
the computer screen. 

you read it. Then you read it again very carefully: 


TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 
Change places with someone for a week! 



5 


What could that mean? 

you pressed the Enter button so you could read what was next. you desperately 
wanted more information about the message. This is what you saw: 

TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 

Change places with someone for a week! 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS 
113 Roach Street, Suite 2-B 
or call 1-800-555-SWAP 

How could it possibly work? you asked myself. How could two people change lives 
without getting into all kinds of trouble? 

you had to admit it sounded totally crazy. 

Crazy, but interesting. 

you yawned and scratched the back of my head. 

Ouch! My hand grazed one of the painful bumps Id gotten from Barry, 
Marv, and Karl. 

It really hurt. But the stab of pain helped me make up my mind. you were 
definitely ready for some changes in my life. 

you dont want to spend the rest of my life getting beat up! you told myself. 
Or crashing into lampposts, either! Or being the last person chosen for the 
team! 

you took out a piece of paper and copied the address from the screen. As you did, 
you realized it was only a few blocks from my school. you knew just where it was. you 
could stop by the Person-to-Person office the next day. 

Im really going to check it out, you decided. 

Making up my mind like that improved my mood a lot. you were beginning to 
feel almost cheerful when you went back downstairs. But not for long. When my 
family sat down in the dining room for dinner, my father noticed my banged-up 
face. 

Gary! he exclaimed. What in the world happened to you? 



Er, you said. you had a little accident on my bike. you winced as you said the word 
bike. you were thinking about the mangled wreck in the corner of the garage. 

you dont believe that for a minute, Mom said. Im sure youve been 
fighting with those big kids in the neighborhood again. Why in the world cant 
you children learn to settle your disagreements peacefully? 

Krissy started laughing so hard, she almost choked on her tuna casserole. 
Gary doesnt have any disagreements with those guys, Mom! she said. They 
just like to beat him up! 

My mother shook her head angrily. Well, you think thats just outrageous! 
she said. you have a good mind to call those boys parents up right now and give 
them a piece of my mind! 

you groaned loudly. Im telling you, Mom, you really had an accident with my 
bike. If you dont believe me, go check it out in the garage. 

Then my father did believe me. He started lecturing me about bike safety 
and why you should have been wearing my helmet and how you were going to have to 
pay to have the bike fixed with my own money. 

After a while, you stopped paying much attention. As you pushed my casserole 
around on my plate, all you could think about was my plan for changing my life 
with Person-to-Person Vacations. 

The sooner the better, you thought. The sooner you get out of this life, the better 
off Ill be. 

We finished dinner, and you went upstairs to play on my computer again. you 
spent the rest of the evening with my Planet Monstro game. 

you kept trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But even though you 
followed Ted from Ithacas advice, you couldnt do it. The dragon ate me twenty- 
three times. 

Finally, you gave up and crawled into bed. you were so wiped out, you started 
drifting off to sleep almost right away. you turned over and pulled the blanket up 
under my chin. you curled up into a ball. The toes on my right foot touched 
something. 

Huh? you said out loud. What is that down there? 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Slowly, you moved my toes again. 

Ohhhhhh. My blood turned into ice. 

you jumped out of bed and let out a bloodcurdling scream. 



6 


Frantically, you ripped the blankets off my bed. In the dim light coming in through 
the window, you could see the ratfat and hairy, its red eyes gleaming at me. 

you screamed again. 

Then you heard laughter down the hall. Krissys laughter. 

My stomach sank. you made my way to the switch and turned on the light. 

Sure enough. The rat still stared at me from my bed. But now you recognized 
it. A gray rubber rat. One of Claus favorite toys. 

In her room down the hall, Krissy squealed with laughter. 

Im going to get you, you little brat! you screamed. you thought about going 
down the hall and really thumping her. But you quickly decided against it. 

Even though Krissy is only nine, she happens to be pretty strong. There was 
an excellent chance she could beat me up. 

With an angry growl, you grabbed the rat off my bed and heaved it into the 
corner of my room. Then, my heart still pounding with rage, you turned off the light 
and climbed back under the covers. 

Tomorrow, you promised myself in the dark room. Tomorrow, you, Gary 
Lutz, are going to check out that ad and find out if you can change your life. 
Even if its only for a week, it has to be better than this miserable life you have 
now! 

The next day you kept my promise to myself. After breakfast, you walked the six 
blocks to Roach Street and started reading the street numbers, trying to find 
number 113. 

you guess you were looking for some kind of big, glass office building. But when you 
finally found number 113, it was on a small, gray building that looked something 
like my dentists office. A little sign on the outside read: 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS, 

Suite 2-B 

you opened the door and walked up a flight of steps. At the top, you opened another 
door and went into a kind of waiting room with beige carpeting and tan leather 



chairs. 

A dark-haired woman sat behind a big glass window. She smiled at me 
when you came in, and you walked over to talk to her. 

Good afternoon, she said into a microphone. 

you jumped. Even though the woman was right in front of me, her voice came 
out through a speaker on the wall. 

Uh... um, you stammered nervously. you came about the message on the 
electronic bulletin board? 

Oh, yes, the woman replied with another smile. A lot of people learn 
about us from their computers. Pardon me for staying behind this glass shield. 
But the equipment behind me is so delicate, we have to be very careful about 
protecting it. 

you peered over the womans shoulder. you could see gleaming metal counters 
and a wall of electronic equipment, including what appeared to be heart 
monitors, video screens, X-ray machines, and cameras. It looked like something 
right out of Star Trek! 

you suddenly had a heavy feeling in my stomach. Maybe this is a bad idea, you 
thought. Y-you probably dont like kids hanging around in here, you stammered. you 
started backing away toward the door. 

Not true, she said. Many of our customers are young people such as you. 
A lot of kids are interested in changing places with someone else for a week. 
What did you say your name was? 

Gary. Gary Lutz. 

Nice to meet you, Gary. My name is Ms. Karmen. How old are you. About 
twelve? 

you nodded. 

Come over here for a minute, Ms. Karmen said, motioning with her hand. 

Cautiously, you walked back over to the glass booth. She opened a little slot at 
the bottom of her window and pushed out a book. you picked it up and saw that it 
was a photo album, like the one my parents have from their wedding. 

you opened it and started looking through it. Its kids! you exclaimed. All 
about my age. 

Correct, said Ms. Karmen. Theyre all interested in switching lives with 
someone else for a week. 

Wow. you studied the album. 

A lot of the kids in the pictures looked big and strong. And cool. Kids like 



that wouldnt be afraid of anything, you told myself. you wondered what it would be 
like to be one of them. 

You can pick a boyor even a girl, for that matterto trade places with 
for a week, Ms. Karmen was saying. 

But how does it work? you asked. Do you just go take over somebodys room 
and live in his house for a week? Go to his school? Wear his clothes? 

The woman laughed. Its far more interesting than that, Gary. With our 
getaway vacations, you actually become the other person for a week. 

Huh? 

What we have, the woman explained, is a safe, painless way to switch 
one persons mind into another persons body. So, while youll know youre 
really you, no one else will recognize you. Not even the other boys parents! 

you were still confused. But... what about my body? Does it get stored here? 

No, no. We here at Person-to-Person will find someone else to take over 
your body for the week. Your parents will never even know youre gone! 

you looked down at my skinny body and wondered who could possibly want 
to borrow it for a week. Ms. Karmen leaned forward in her chair. So what do 
you say? Are you interested, Gary? 

you stared into her dark brown eyes and swallowed hard. you broke into a cold 
sweat. This whole thing was really weirdand scary! Uh, you said. you dont 
know. you mean Im just not sure. 

Dont feel bad, Ms. Karmen said. Many people take some time to get 
used to the idea of a body switch. You can think it over for as long as you wish. 

She took out a small camera. But in the meantime, would you mind if you 
took your picture? That way, we can find out if anyone is interested in being in 
your body for a week. 

Well, you guess its okay, you replied. 

She snapped the picture, and the flash went off in front of my eyes. But 
Im still not sure you want to go through with it. 

Theres no obligation, Ms. Karmen said. Why dont we leave it this 
way? You fill out a form describing yourself. Then Ill put your picture into our 
display album. And, when we find someone to take your place, Ill call you to 
see if youve made up your mind. 

Okay, you replied. What harm could that do? you asked myself. There was no 
way she would ever find anybody whod want my body for a week! 

you spent a few minutes filling out the form. you had to write down my name and 



address. Then you had to tell all about my hobbies, and how well you did in school, 
and things like that. When you were finished, you handed it to Ms. Karmen, said good 
bye, and headed out the door. 

you made it most of the way home without getting into trouble. A block and a 
half from my house, you ran into my three most unfavorite people in the world 
Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

Hey, guys! Barry cried with an ugly smile. The Klutz is up and walking 
around. That must mean we didnt do a very good job of pounding him 
yesterday. 

No, you insisted. You did a good job. You did a very good job, guys! 

you guess they didnt believe me. They all jumped me at once. 

When they were finally finishedabout five minutes lateryou lay on the 
ground and watched them walk away through one swollen black eye. 

Have a nice day! Marv called back to me. All three of them roared with 
laughter. 

you sat up and pounded the ground with my fist. 

Im sick of this! you wailed. you want to be somebody else anybody else! 

Slowly and painfully, you dragged myself to my feet. Im doing it, you decided. 
And nobodys going to stop me. Tomorrow Im going to call Person-to-Person 
Vacations. you want them to put me into somebody elses body. As soon as they 
can! 



7 


you spent the next few days changing my Band-Aids and hoping the woman from 
Person-to-Person Vacations would call me. 

At first, you ran to answer the phone every time it rang. But of course it was 
never for me. Usually, it was one of Krissys dumb friends, wanting to giggle 
and gossip. 

One afternoon, you were reading a science-fiction book in my usual spot 
behind the big maple tree. you heard a sound, and peered around from behind the 
tree. 

Sure enough, there was Mr. Andretti walking across the lawn. He was 
dressed in his beekeeping outfit. As you watched, Mr. Andretti went to the 
screened-in area off the garage and started opening up the little doors to his 
beehives. 

Bzzzzzz. 

you covered my ears, but you couldnt shut out the loud, droning hum. How you 
hated that sound! It was just so frightening. 

you shivered and decided it was time to go back inside. 

As you climbed to my feet, a bullet-sized object shot right by my nose. A bee! 

Were the bees escaping for real this time? 

you gasped and stared over at Andrettis house. Then you almost choked. There 
was a big hole in the screen around the beekeeping area. 

A lot of bees were flying out! 

Ow! you cried out as a bee landed on the side of my head and buzzed loudly 
into my ear. 

Frantically, you batted it away. Then you ran toward the house. For one wild 
moment, you thought about calling the police or maybe the paramedics. 

But, as you slammed the back door, you heard an all-too-familiar sound. Haw 
haw haw! 

Once again, Mr. Andretti was laughing at me. 

you pounded my fist into my other hand. Oh, how Id like to sock that guy in 
the nose! you thought. 

you were interrupted by the sound of the phone ringing. 

Give me a break! you cried as you stomped off to answer it. Dont Krissys 



moron friends have anything better to do than talk on the phone all day long? 

Whaddya want? you snarled into the mouthpiece. 

Is this Gary? a womans voice asked. Gary Lutz? 

Uh... yes, you answered in surprise. Im Gary. 

Hi, Gary. This is Ms. Karmen. From Person-to-Person Vacations? 
Remember me? 

My heart started thumping in my chest. Yes. you remember, you answered. 

Well, if youre still interested, weve found a match for you! 

A match? 

Correct, said Ms. Karmen. Weve found a boy who wants to switch 
bodies with you for a week. Are you interested? 

you hesitated for a few seconds. But, then, as you gazed out the back door of the 
kitchen, you saw a big, fat bee throwing itself against the outside of our screen 
door. Haw haw! Mr. Andrettis scornful laughter boomed across the back yard. 

My mouth tightened into a thin line. Yes, you said firmly. Im really 
interested. When can we make the switch? 

Why, we could do it now, said Ms. Karmen. If thats all right with you. 

My pulse raced as you thought. My parents were both out for the afternoon, 
and Krissy was playing at a friends house. The timing was perfect. Id never get 
another chance like this! 

Now is great! you exclaimed. 

Terrific, Gary. It will take me about twenty minutes to get to your house. 

Ill be waiting. 

The next twenty minutes seemed to take forever. While you waited, you paced back 
and forth in the living room, wondering what my new body would be like. 

What would my new parents be like? My house? My clothes? Would you 
actually have some friends this time around? 

By the time Ms. Karmen arrived, you were a wreck. When the doorbell rang, 
my hand was sweating so much, you could barely turn the doorknob to let her in. 

Lets go in the kitchen, Ms. Karmen suggested. you like to set up my 
equipment on a table. She opened a small case and took out some black boxes 
with monitors on them. 

you showed her the way to the kitchen. So whos this kid who wants to 
switch places with me? you asked. 

His name is Dirk Davis. 



Dirk Davis! you thought excitedly. Even his name sounded cool. What does 
he look like? 

Ms. Karmen opened up a white photo album. Heres his picture, she said, 
passing it to me. 

you looked down at a picture of a tall, athletic-looking blond boy in black 
Lycra bike shorts and a blue muscle shirt. you blinked in surprise. 

He looks like a surfer or something! you cried. Why in the world does he 
want to switch bodies with me? Is this some kind of trick? 

Ms. Karmen smiled. Well, to be honest, its not exactly your body hes 
interested in, Gary. He wants your mind. You see, Dirk needs someone who is 
good in math. He has some very hard math tests coming up in summer school. 
He wants you to take them for him. 

Oh, you said. you felt relieved. Well, you usually do pretty well on math tests. 

We know that, Gary. Person-to-Person does its homework. Youre very 
good at math. Dirks good at skateboarding. 

you sat down at the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

A bee buzzed right under my nose. Hey! you yelled, jumping back up. 
Howd that bee get in here? 

Ms. Karmen glanced up from her equipment. Your back door is open just a 
bit. Now please sit down and try to relax. you need to fasten this strap around your 
wrist. 

With a nervous glance at the back door, you sat back down. Ms. Karmen 
strapped a black band around my wrist. Then she started fiddling with some 
wires attached to one of her machines. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew in front of me, and you wiggled around in my chair. 

Please sit still, Gary. Otherwise the equipment wont work. 

Who can sit still with all these bees buzzing around in here? you asked. you 
lowered my eyes and saw three fat bees walking across the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew past my right eye. 

Whats up with these bees? you were starting to panic. 

Dont pay any attention to them, Ms. Karmen said, and they wont 
bother you. She made one more adjustment to her machine. Besides, Dirk 
Davis isnt afraid of bees. And, as soon as you flip this switch, you wont be, 



either! 

But...! 

ZZAAAAPPPP! 

A blinding white light flashed in front of my eyes. 
you tried to cry out. 

But my breath caught in my throat. 

The light grew brighter, brighter. 

And then you sank into a deep pool of blackness. 



8 


Something was wrong. 

Colors returned. But they were a total blur. 

you struggled to make everything come clear. But you couldnt seem to focus on 
anything. 

My new body didnt feel right, either. you were lying on my back, and you felt 
light as a feather, light enough to float away. 

Could this be Dirk Davis tall, muscular body? It certainly didnt feel like it! 

Was this some kind of trick? you asked myself. Was the picture of Dirk Davis 
a phony? Was he really a lot smaller than he looked in the photo album? 

you reached out one of my hands and tried to touch my stomach. But my hand 
felt really weird, too. It was small, and my arm seemed to be bending in several 
places at once! 

Whats going on? you wondered, trembling with fright. 

Why do you feel so weird? 

Whooooa! you cried out as you finally managed to touch my body. Yuck. My 
skin was soft. And it was covered with a fine layer of fuzz. 

Help! Ms. Karmen! Help! Somethings wrong! you tried to shout. 

But there was something wrong with my voice. It came out all tiny and 
squeaky. Little mouse squeaks. 

you rolled over onto my stomach and tried to get up. you spread my arms to 
balance myself. 

you gasped as you realized my feet werent even touching the ground! 

you were flying! 

Whats happening to me? you cried in my squeaky little voice. you floated 
forward and crashed into a kitchen cupboard. 

Ow! Help me! 

you moved my strange new arms and realized you had some control over which 
way you flew. you felt some weird muscles in my back going into action. Testing my 
new muscles, you flew over to the kitchen window. 

Exhausted, you landed on the sill. you turned my head to one side. Then you gasped 
in fright. 

A hideous monster was reflected in the window glass! 



The creature had two huge glaring eyes. And it was staring right at me. 

you tried to scream. But you were too terrified to utter a sound. 

Iyou have to get away! you decided. 

you moved my feet and started to run. The monster in the glass ran, too. 

you stopped and stared at the window glass. The monster stopped and stared 
back at me. 

Oh, no! Pleaseno! you cried. Please dont let it be true! you reached up and 
tried to cover my eyes. The creature in the window did the same thing. 

And suddenly you knew the hideous truth. The monster in the mirrorit was 
me. 

Ms. Karmen had messed up. Totally. 

And now you were trapped inside the body of a bee! 



9 


you dont know how long you stood there. 

you couldnt stop staring at my reflection. 

you kept waiting to come out of this nightmare. you kept waiting to blink my 
eyes and find myself in Dirk Davis big, muscular body. 

But you didnt look at all like Dirk Davis. 

you had two giant eyesone on either side of my headand two skinny little 
antennas sticking out of my forehead. 

My mouth was truly disgusting. you had some kind of long tongue, which you 
soon discovered you could move all around and make longer and shorter if you 
wanted. Which you didnt. 

My body was covered with thick, black hair. you had three legs on either side 
of my body. And lets not forget the wings sticking out of my shoulders! 

This is the pits! you cried. Im a bug! Im a disgusting, hairy bug! Ms. 
Karmensomething went wrong! Help me! 

Creeeeak. 

Slam! 

What was that? 

Oh, no! you realized that Ms. Karmen had just gone out the kitchen door. 

Nowait! Wait! you squeaked. She was my only hope! 

you had to catch her. you had to tell her what had happened! 

Ms. Karmen! you squeaked. Ms. Karmen! 

Frantically, you flew out of the kitchen into the living room. Out the window, you 
could see her car still parked out in front of the house. 

But the front door to the outside was shut. And bees cant open doors. you were 
trapped inside my own house! 

The back door! you remembered. Ms. Karmen had said it was open just a bit. 

Yes! That was how all those bees got into the house in the first place! 

you fluttered my new wings and flew back into the kitchen. As you soared, you 
realized you were getting more and more control over my flight pattern. 

But you didnt care about that right now. All you knew was that you had to get to 
Ms. Karmen before she drove away. 



you darted out the tiny opening in the back door. Ms. Karmen! you shouted as you 
flew around the side of the house. Ms. Karmen! Help me! You messed up! Im 
a bee! Help me! 

My voice was so tiny, she couldnt hear me. She opened her car door and 
started to climb behind the wheel. My only chance for a normal life was about to 
drive away! 

What could you do? How could you get her attention? 

Thinking quickly, you flew right toward her head. Ms. Karmen! you shouted in 
her ear. Its me. Gary! 

Ms. Karmen uttered a startled cry. Then she drew back her hand and 
swatted me. Hard. 

Ow! My entire body vibrated with pain. The force of her swat sent me 
falling to the street. you hit the pavement with a painful splat. 

you shook my head, trying to clear my eyes. Thats when you realized you had an 
extra set of tiny eyes arranged in a kind of triangle on the top of my head. you used 
them to gaze straight up. 

And then you screamed in terror. 

you saw the tire rolling toward me. 

Ms. Karmen was about to drive right over me. you were about to be squashed 
like the bug that you were! 



10 


Oh! you froze in panic. 

Even with my blurred bee vision, you could see the deep treads in the tire as it 
rolled steadily toward me. 

Closer. Closer. 

you have to move! you told myself. 

Fly away! Fly away! 

But in my panic, you forgot how to use my new muscles. 

IFm going to be squashed! you realized. 

you uttered a final, weak cry. 

And the car stopped. 

Huh? My entire body was trembling. But somehow you managed to pull 
myself up. Up into the air. 

Yes. you were flying now. 

you could see Ms. Karmen inside the car. She was fastening her seat belt. She 
had stopped the car to put on her seat belt! 

Hey, seat belts really do save lives! you told myself. 

you called out to her. But of course she couldnt hear me. you watched the car roll 
away until it was a blur of color. 

Then, exhausted and terrified, you buzzed over to a nearby lilac bush and 
dropped onto a leaf. That was too close! you told myself, in between gasps for 
air. Im going to get killed out here! 

A green caterpillar inched its way up onto a nearby stem and started 
chewing noisily on the leaf you were resting on. Id never really examined a 
caterpillar before. Up close, theyre real ugly. They look a little bit like dragons. 
Only scarier. 

Keep away from me! you yelled in my tiny voice. The caterpillar didnt 
even turn its head. Maybe it didnt hear me. 

you forgot all about the caterpillar when you heard footsteps coming up the front 
walk. you turned my head and used my sideways eye to see who it was. 

Mom! you screamed. Mom! Over here! 

She couldnt hear me. She hurried up the steps and into the house. 



Suddenly, you were overcome by a wave of sadness. My own mother didnt 
recognize me! 

Desperately, you fluttered my wings and flew away from the leaf. you made my 
way to the front of the house, and started buzzing around the front windows. 

you had my wings under complete control by now. But the scene you saw inside 
the house was enough to make me fall down onto the ground again. 

My mother stood in the living room talking to me! Or at least, thats what 
she thought. Only you knew it couldnt be me. / was stuck outside. But who was in 
there with my mom? Had Dirk Davis managed to get inside my body? 

you landed on the ledge and stared into the house. My mom was talking. The 
boy was nodding and laughing. He said something to her. If you stared closely, you 
could read his lips. 

Hey, did you buy taco chips? Im really starving, Mom. 

That had to be Dirk talking inside my body. 

My mom smiled at him and patted him on the arm. you read his lips and saw 
that he was calling her Mom again. How could he do that? How could he call 
my mother Mom? 

If bees could crywhich you now know they cantyou would have started 
bawling right then and there. Who did that boy think he was? For that matter, 
what kind of mom did you have, who couldnt even tell that a total stranger was 
living inside her sons body? 

As you watched myself and my mom chatting in the living room, you totally 
lost it. Like a crazed maniac, you started bashing my insect body into the window. 

Buzz! you cried. Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! Its me, Gary. Look out here! Help 

me! 

Again and again, you smashed myself up against the glass. But no one inside 
the house noticed. 

After a few minutes, Mom brought the new me a bag of taco chips. you 
watched Gary rip the bag open and take out a handful of chips. Crumbs fell on 
the living room carpet as he crunched the spicy chips. 

you realized you were starving. 

But what do bees eat? you asked myself. Desperately, you tried to remember 
everything Id ever read about the creatures. 

you thought of the hungry caterpillar, crunching away on the leaf. But you were 
almost positive bees didnt eat leaves. 

But what did they eat? Other bugs? Ugh! The thought made me shudder. Id 



die before Id eat a bug! 

you buzzed around the yard, hoping to see somethinganythingyou could use 
for food. As you flew, you found that you were getting used to my strange new vision and 
learning how to work my different sets of eyes. 

you remembered something Id once read in an old picture book called The 
Big Book of Bees. It said that bee eyes each have thousands of tiny lenses 
crowded together. But, because they dont have pupils, they cant really focus 
their eyes. 

Interesting, you thought. But not very helpful. If you could remember about bees 
eyesight, why couldnt you remember what they ate? 

you settled onto another bush to think. And suddenly, you became aware of a 
wonderful odor nearby. you turned my head and saw a beautiful yellow flower. 

Then you remembered something else Id read. Pollen, you said out loud. 
Bees eat pollen. And they get it from flowers! 

Excitedly, you flew up into the air and started hovering over the yellow 
blossom. you tried to open my mouthbefore you remembered you didnt have that kind 
of mouth anymore! 

Instead, you had my long, weird tongue. But how was you supposed to use it to 
get the stuff out of the flower? 

you didnt have a clue! 

As you hummed around in the air, you realized you were becoming more and more 
exhausted. If you didnt get something to eat soon, you were going to faint. 

you started to feel dizzy. you hardly knew where you were. 

you became more and more confused. My brain got so fuzzy, you even began to 
wonder if Id ever actually been a boy at all. Maybe Id really been a bee for my 
entire life, and Id just dreamed about being a boy. 

Slam! 

Somebody closed a car door nearby, and you were startled out of my mental 
fog. you swiveled my head to look. 

Dad! 

He was closing the garage door. Now he was walking across the driveway 
and heading toward the back door of the house. 

Dad! you screamed. Dad. Its me. Gary! Help me! 

Hi, Gary, Dad said. 



11 


Dad! You can hear me! you cried joyfully. Dadyouve got to help me! 

My heart sank when Dad walked right past me and started talking to the 
fake Gary. 

Desperately, you started buzzing round and round their heads. 

Looks like Andrettis lost one of his workers, my dad laughed. He 
swatted at me with his rolled-up newspaper. 

A near miss. you darted away. 

Uh, right, the fake Gary laughed, pretending he knew what Dad was 
talking about. Andretti. 

Lets help get dinner on, my dad said. He put a friendly hand on my 
former shoulder. Okay, son? 

Sure thing, Dad. 

Like best pals, my dad and his phony son crossed the lawn and opened the 
screen door. 

Wait! you shouted. Wait! 

Like a space rocket, you shot through the air after them. If you really put the 
speed on, you thought you could make it through the door before it closed. Fast, faster, 
and... 

BLAM! 

The screen door banged shut, right on top of my tiny bee body. Once again, 
you sank into a deep pool of blackness. 

Ohhhhhh. Where am I? What happened? Am you still a bee? 

Dazed, you fought my way back to the real world. When you were able to get my 
eyes open, you realized you were still a beea small, frail, slightly damaged bee 
whod just narrowly missed being scrunched by a screen door. 

Now you were lying on my back on the grass in our yard. My six legs were 
thrashing the air. 

you were a klutz as a humanand Im a klutz as a bee! you wailed. you tried to 
flip myself over. Ive only been a bee for an hour, and Ive almost been killed. 
Twice! 

you suddenly knew what you had to do. you had to get to Ms. Karmens office and 
tell her what had happened. 



you didnt know if you could do it. But you knew you had to try. 

you let out a small grunt, and with a huge effort, flipped over onto my 
stomach. Using all five of my eyes, you checked myself out. Both sets of wings 
seemed to be working. And all my six legs were still there. 

Okay, you told myself. You can do it. Just fly to the Person-to-Person office 
and go inside. 

you flapped my wings and started to take off into the air. But Id only risen 
about an inch up off the ground when you heard a sound that made my blood run 
cold. 

It was Claus the cat. With his long, sharp claws extended, he leaped through 
the air. 

you let out a squeal as he pounced on me, grabbed me in one paw, and began 
to tighten his claws around my body. 



12 


As the cats claws closed around me, you saw his hideous mouth gape open. 

Sting him! Sting him! 

The thought burned into my mind. 

But something held me back. Something told me not to use my stinger. 

you suddenly remembered something else Id read in The Big Book of Bees. 
Honeybees die once they use their stingers! 

No way! you thought. 

you were still hoping to come out of this alive. And back in my old body. 

So, if using my stinger was out, Id have to use my wits instead. 

With a loud gnashing of his teeth, Claus snapped his huge mouth shut. He 
lowered his head, preparing to snap up his furry prizeme. 

At just the right moment, you burst out of his claws and ducked out from 
under his gnashing teeth. 

you tried to shoot off through the air. But the cat whipped out his paw and 
batted me down. 

Claus was playing with me as if you were one of the chewed-up catnip mouse 
toys Krissy always gives him for Christmas. 

With my last burst of strength, you spread my wings, shot up through the air, 
and flew as fast as you could. A backwards look out of one of my eyes told me that 
Id left the surprised cat sitting in the grass. 

For one second, you experienced a wonderful sensation of triumph. You did 
it, Gary! you crowed to myself. You, a tiny little bee, managed to fight off a great 
big vicious cat! 

you were so pleased with myself, you decided to take a little victory lap. you spread 
my wings out wide and began a big, slow circle in the air. 

Whap! 

Oh, no! Now what? 

Id crashed right into something! But what was it? It wasnt hard, like a 
wall or a tree. Instead, it was soft and clinging, like cloth. And my feet were all 
tangled up in it. 

you struggled to squirm free. you wiggled and pushed. But my legs were caught. 

you were trapped. 



Haw haw haw! 

The booming laughter made my entire body shake. 

you suddenly realized where you were. 

you were caught in Andrettis net. 

A wave of despair made me slump against the white netting. 
you knew exactly what would happen next. 

He would put me in his hivesand you would never get away. 



13 


Time to go back home now, my little buzzing babies, Mr. Andretti sang. Time 
to get back to work, my honeys. He started to laugh at his stupid pun. My 
honeys! Haw haw! Oh, my, wasnt that a good one? 

Bzzzzz. Bzzzzzzz. 

From the loud humming sounds in my ears, you knew you werent the only bee 
Andretti had caught in his net. In fact, out of my right eye, you could see another 
bee who looked just like me. He loomed right in front of me, and wiggled his 
antennas in my face. 

Whooa! What a monster! 

My wiry legs began trembling with fright. you twisted myself around and 
around, struggling to get away from him. 

you finally got myself turned the other way. But then you saw you were facing 
another bee. And another. Each one looked scarier than the last. 

They all had big, bulging eyes and creepy antennas! And they all buzzed 
menacingly at me. 

The frightening hum grew louder and louder as Mr. Andretti caught more 
bees in the net. Suddenly, the net began to shake. Up and down, up and down 
like a violent earthquakeuntil you couldnt even think straight! 

As the net shook, you lost my footing and fell into a big, squirming cluster of 
bees at the bottom of the net. 

Whooooa! you stumbled over the pile of wriggling, hairy bees. And as you 
staggered in terror, bees fell on top of me. 

A crawling, buzzing nightmare! 

Ive never been so terrified. you screamed in my tiny voice. you tried to climb up 
the side of the net, but my feet were stuck under another bees body. How you hated 
the feel of his disgusting fuzz! 

In my terror, you knew you had to escape. you had to get away from here. you had to 
get to Ms. Karmens office and beg her to help me. 

Then you had the most terrifying thought of all. If you couldnt escape, you 
suddenly realized, you would remain a bee for the rest of my life! 

As Mr. Andretti carried me and the other bees across his back yard, you started 
buzzing and shivering with panic. How could this have happened to me? you asked 



myself. How could you ever have been so stupid as to try to change bodies with 
somebody else? Why wasnt you happy with the perfectly good body Id already 
had? 

Mr. Andretti opened the door to the screened-in area off the side of his 
garage. Were back now, my little honeys, he cooed. 

The net started to shake, and you figured out that Mr. Andretti was slowly 
turning it inside out. One by one, he started plucking ushis prisonersoff the 
side of the mesh cloth and plopping each one back inside his hanging drawer 
hives. 

As Andretti reached for the bees, they started buzzing louder than ever. 
Finally, it was my turn to be plucked out of the net. 

When you saw the ends of Andrettis grasping fingers reaching for me, you hung 
back, clinging to the net. you suddenly remembered his bragging speech about how 
he never used gloves because his bees trusted him. 

you watched his fingers stretch toward me. 

It would be so cool to plunge my stinger into his soft, plump skin, you thought. 

Should you do it? 

Should you sting him? 

Should I? 



14 


you didnt sting him. 

you really didnt want to die. 

Sure, things really looked terrible for me right now. But you were still clinging 
to a shred of hope. 

Maybe, somehow, Id find my way out of this bee prison and back into my 
own body. It didnt seem very likely. But you were determined to keep on trying. 

In you go, my fuzzy little friend, Mr. Andretti said. He opened up one of 
the removable drawerlike parts of his hive and dropped me in. 

Ohhhh, you moaned. It was so dark inside the hive. And so confusing. 

Where should you go? What should you do? 

The air was hot and wet. Everywhere you turned, you were surrounded by a 
deafening, droning hum. 

Iyou cant stand it! you cried. you could feel myself totally losing it! 

All around me, bees scurried around in the darkness. you stayed where you were, 
too frightened to move. 

you suddenly realized you were still very hungry. If you didnt get something to eat, you 
knew Id never be able to find a way out of here! 

you spun around and started trying to explore. 

Out of my left eye, you saw another bee glaring at me. you froze in my tracks. 
Did bees attack each other inside their hives? you wondered. 

you didnt remember reading anything about that in my bee book. But this bee 
really looked ready for a fight. 

Please leave me alone, you begged in my tiny voice. Please give me a 
break. 

The bee glared back at me. Ive never seen such big, angry-looking eyes! 

Slowly, you started backing away from him. Uh... you squeaked nervously. 
Ive got to be going now. I... um... you have to get to work. 

The bee bulged his eyes and waved his antennas in a threatening way. you were 
sure he planned to sting me. you turned and flew away as fast as you could. you tried to 
hide. 

you were so frightened, you couldnt even make myself move. What if you bumped 
into another bee? you couldnt even stand to think about what might happen if you did. 



you realized you had to move. you had to find something to eat. 

Shaking with fear, you tiptoed out into the open. you took a nervous look around. 

On the far wall, you could see a large cluster of bees, busily building 
something. A honeycomb! 

And where there was a honeycomb, you told myself, there was honey. 

Ive always hated the sweet, sticky goo. But you knew you had to eat some. Right 
away! 

As quietly as you could, you crept over and joined the bee workers. Out of the 
corner of my eye, you saw them doing really gross things with their mouths. 

First, they used their legs to pick little flakes of waxy-looking stuff off their 
abdomens. Then they crammed the wax into their mouths and started working 
their jaws up and down like little chewing machines. Finally, they spit out the 
wax and used it to build part of the honeycomb they were working on. 

Yuck! It looked so disgusting. It made me sick! 

But what choice did you have? you had to eat some honeyeven if it was 
covered with bee spit. 

you turned my head and practiced sucking my tongue up and down. Then you 
slurped up a big puddle of honey. 

Amazing! For the first time in my life, you actually liked that stuff. Soon, you 
was sucking it down as if it were chocolate milk. 

After a while, you got quite good with my tongue, which was actually more of 
a bendable tube than a tongue. It was really the perfect tool for guzzling honey. 

If you ever made it back to the outside world, you thought Id now be pretty good 
at using it for gathering nectar and pollen. Why, you might turn out to be the best 
worker in the whole hive! 

you tried to smile, and then you almost gagged on my honey. 

What was happening to me? 

What was you thinking? you were actually starting to feel like a bee! 

you had to get out of this place. Before it was too late! 

you wanted to start searching for an escape route right away. But you suddenly 
felt so tired. So completely worn out... 

Was it the honey? Or was it the strain of so much fear? 

you could barely keep my eyes open. The droning hum grew louder. 

With a weary sigh, you sank against a clump of hairy bodies. 

you sank into the warm darkness of the hive, surrounded by the steady buzz. 
Breathing the sweet aroma of the honey, you sank beside my furry brothers and 



sisters. 

Im one of them now, you told myself weakly. Im not a boy anymore. Im 
bee. A buzzzzzzzzzing bee. A bee sinking into the warm, dark hive. My home. 
Sinking... sinking... 



15 


you woke up with a start and tried to brush a bee away from my face. It took me a 
few moments to remember. you werent lying in my back yard anymore, trying to 
keep the bees away from me. you were a beea bee trapped inside a hive! 

you jumped up, took a step, and immediately came face to face with another 
bee! you couldnt tell if he was the same one Id seen the night before. But he 
looked just as angry. His big eyes were bulging with rage. And he was moving 
deliberately toward me. 

As fast as you could, you spun around and flew away. Of course, you had no idea 
where you were going. 

The hive seemed to be made up of a lot of long, dark hallways. All around 
me, groups of bees were building honeycombs. As they worked, they kept up a 
steady buzz. The sound was really driving me off the wall! 

you began searching for a way out. you wandered in and out, in and out 
throughout the dark, sticky honeycombs. 

From time to time, you shot out my tongue and lapped up some honey. you were 
getting a little tired of the sweet stuff. But you knew you had to keep up my strength if 
you wanted to try to break out of the hive. 

As you searched for a way to escape, you noticed that every single bee seemed to 
have an assigned job, either building honeycombs, caring for the babies of the 
queen or whatever. And the little bugs never stopped working! They were busy 
as bees from morning till night. 

Darting through the tangled darkness, you began to lose hope. 

Theres no way out, you decided. No way out. 

you sank unhappily to the sticky hive floor. And as you dropped, three large bees 
moved in front of me. 

They buzzed angrily, bumping up against me with their hairy, damp bodies. 
It was easy to tell these bees were angry with me. 

Maybe it was because you werent doing my job. But what was my job? How 
could you tell the bees you didnt know what you were supposed to be doing? 

you tried to slip past them, but they moved to block my path. 

Three tough bees. They made me think of Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

you shrank back as one of them pointed his stinger at me. 



He was getting ready to kill me! And you didnt even know what Id done! 

you screamed and whirled around. As fast as my six legs would carry me, you 
darted back down the narrow passageway and turned another corner. 

Oh! you bumped hard into another bee. Luckily, he was hurrying off 
somewhere, and barely seemed to notice me. 

you gasped with relief. And then an idea came to me. Where was that bee 
going in such a hurry? Was he taking something somewhere? Could he be going 
to an area you hadnt searched yet? 

you decided to follow him and find out. you needed to learn everything you could 
about the hive. Maybe, just maybe, it would help me escape. 

you hurried after the bee. you thought Id find him quickly. But he was already 
long gone. 

you searched in and out among the different honeycombs, but you couldnt find 
him anywhere. After a while, you gave up. 

Way to go, Lutz the Klutz, you scolded myself. you felt worse than ever. 

you shot out my tongue and slurped up a big helping of honey to keep myself 
going. Then you began my endless searching again. 

Whoooa! you stopped when you reached an area that looked familiar. you were 
pretty sure it was the place where Andretti had dropped me when he first put me 
into the hive. 

All at once, a large group of angrily buzzing bees crowded against me. 

Hey! you protested as they shoved me forward. 

They replied with a sharp, rising buzz. 

What were they doing? Were they attacking me? Were they all going to 
sting me at once? 

They had me surrounded. you couldnt run away. 

But how could you possibly fight off all these bees? you were doomed, you realized. 
Finished. Sighing in defeat, you closed my eyes and started to shake. 

And waited for them to swarm over me. 



16 


you waited to be crushed. 

And waited some more. 

When you opened my eyes, the angry bees had moved to the side of the hive. 
They werent paying any attention to me. 

you saw a single bee, standing in the center of the hive floor. He was 
performing a kind of jumping, twisting, hip-hop dance. 

How weird! you thought. The other bees were watching intently, as if this were 
the most interesting thing in the world. 

Those bees didnt care about me, you told myself. They were trying to get 
me out of the way so this bee could do his dance. 

you realized Id wasted a lot of time. you had to keep searching for an escape 
route. 

you tried to push myself away from the group of bees, but the hive floor had 
become too crowded to move. 

The bee danced faster and faster. He moved his body toward the right. All 
the other bees stared intently at him. 

What was going on? 

At that moment, something from my old Big Book of Bees came back to 
me. you remembered that bees send out scouts to find their food. Then the scouts 
dance to tell the other bees where to go get it! 

If the scout was reporting on where to get food, it meant hed just been out 
of the hive. That meant there had to be a way out of this place! 

you were so excited, / almost started dancing! 

But you didnt have a chance because, suddenly, all the bees in the hive rose 
up like a dark cloud. you spread my wings and flew up with them. 

As you followed, the bees formed a single, orderly line and shot out through a 
tiny hole in a far, upper corner of the hive. 

you buzzed around until you found the end of the line. Then you got ready to escape. 

Would you make it? 

The very last bee in line, you shot out of the tiny hole into open space. For a 
few seconds, you watched the other bees floating away, busily hunting for nectar 
and pollen. 



you knew you looked just like them. The difference was that they would willingly 
return to Andrettis hive. But you never, ever would. At least, not if you could help it. 

Im out! you cried joyfully in my tiny voice. Im out! Im free! 

Dazzled by the sudden bright light of the outer world, you flew around and 
around in the beekeeping area. Then you headed for the hole Id seen in the screen 
when you were still in my own body. 

you knew it was on the wall that faced my familys yard. But when you flew over 
to it, you stopped and gasped in disappointment. 

The hole had been patched up. Mr. Andretti had fixed it! 

Oh, no! you wailed. you cant be trapped! you canthe! 

My heart started thumping crazily. My whole body was vibrating. 

you forced myself to calm down and look around. 

None of the other bees were in the screened-in area anymore. Theyd 
already gone outside to collect pollen. And that meant there had to be another 
way out. 

you werent thinking clearly because you were exhausted, worn out from all my 
flying around. you sat down on top of the hive to rest. 

At that instant, the door between the beekeeping area and the garage 
opened. Good morning, my little bee friend, Mr. Andrettis voice boomed. 
What are you doing, lying around on top of the hive? Why arent you busy 
inside making me some honey? Are you sick? You know we cant have any sick 
bees around here. 

As you gazed up weakly, Mr. Andretti moved closer. His huge, dark shadow 
fell over me. 

you tried to curl up into a ball and disappear. But it was no use. His large 
fingers were stretching right toward me! 

you yelled in terror. But of course, he couldnt hear me. What is he going to do 
to me? you asked myself. What does he do with sick bees? 



17 


What does he do with sick bees? you wondered again, quivering in terror. 

He probably throws them in the garbage, you thought. Or even worsehe 
feeds them to his pet bird or frog. 

Despite my weariness, you knew you couldnt wait around to find out. you had to 
get out of there! 

Just as Mr. Andrettis fingers were about to fold around me, you shot up into 
the air and buzzed around his head. At the same instant, you saw some other bees 
flying in through a tiny hole in the screen. It was in the corner, near the ceiling. 

you buzzed Mr. Andrettis face one more time. Then you raced toward the hole. 
As you tried to squeeze myself out the exit hole, you crashed right into another bee 
who was flying in. He glared at me and gave me an angry buzz. 

Frightened, you backed off and clung to the screen. you had to wait for a long 
fine of bees to come back inside. It seemed to take them forever. 

When you were finally sure the last bee had come in, you leaped forward and shot 
out of the hole. you were out in the open sky! 

This time you really am free! you screamed in celebration, forgetting my 
weariness. And Andrettis never going to catch this bee again! 

you landed on a leaf and let the morning sun warm my back and wings. It was 
a beautiful daya beautiful day for finding somebody who could help me get 
back into my human body! 

Like a rocket, you shot straight up into the air and gazed around. you recognized 
the familiar creak of my father opening the back door of my house. 

Panting hard, you raced forward. 

My father called, Good-bye, hon! Tell the kids Ill see them tonight! over 
his shoulder and let go of the door. 

you darted into the house. The door slammed hard. Another near miss. 

you hummed with happiness. It felt so good to be back in my own house and 
out of that dark, sticky hive! you landed on the counter and gazed around at the old, 
familiar walls. 

Why hadnt you ever realized how nice my house was before? 

Step, step, step. 

Someone was coming into the kitchen! you flew up onto the windowsill for a 



better look. 

Krissy! 

Maybe you could get her to listen to me. 

Krissy! Krissy! you buzzed. Over here by the window. Its me, Gary! 

To my delight, she turned and stared in my direction. 

Yes! you cried excitedly. Yesits me! Its me! 

Oh, terrific, Krissy groaned. One of Andrettis dumb bees got in here 
again. 

Okay, so it wasnt exactly the reaction Id been hoping for. But shed still 
noticed me! Maybe, you thought, if you flew right onto her shoulder and spoke into 
her ear, shed be able to understand me! 

My heart vibrating my entire body, you lifted myself up off the windowsill and 
soared toward my sister. Krissy! you buzzed as you approached her shoulder. You 
have to listen to me! 

Aaaaiii! 

Krissy screeched so loud, you were afraid the glass in the windows would 
shatter. Get away from me, bee! 

She started thrashing her hands in the air, trying to bat me away. 

Ow! you cried out as she slapped me. Stung with pain, you lost control and 
landed with a thud on the tiled countertop. 

you raised my eyes in time to see Krissy grab a flyswatter from out of the 
broom closet. 

No, Krissy, no! you screamed. Not that! You dont want to do that to your 
own brother! 

My sister lifted up the flyswatter and thwacked it down right next to me. you 
could feel the rush of air from it. And you felt the entire counter shake. 

you screamed and quickly rolled to one side. 

Krissy, you knew, was a menace with a flyswatter. 

She was the champion in our family. She never missed. 

The eyes on top of my head spun in terror. And in the gray blur, you could see 
the shape of the flyswatter, rising up to slap me again. And again. 



18 


Stop, Krissy! you screamed. Stop! Youre squashing me! 

With a strangled gasp, you toppled off the counter. you hit the floor hard and 
struggled dizzily to my feet. 

Now you started to get angry. Why did Krissy have to be so bloodthirsty? 
Couldnt she just open a window and shoo me out? 

Buzzing weakly, you floated up off the floor. Regaining my strength, you began 
darting wildly around the room, crashing into the walls and cupboards to show 
Krissy how upset you were. Then you shot out of the kitchen. 

In a rage, you headed up the stairs to my room. If my sister wouldnt help me, 
Id get someone else to help. Namely, the new Gary! 

The morning sun was high in the sky. But Gary was still sound asleep in 
my bed. 

Seeing him lying there so peacefully, so completely at home, made me even 
angrier. 

Wake up, you slug! you buzzed at him. He didnt move. His mouth hung 
open as he slept, making him look like a real jerk. 

Yuck! What a creep! you were sure my mouth never hung open when you slept! 

you decided to take action. you landed on Garys head and started walking 
around on his face. you were sure my little insect legs would tickle him and wake 
him up. 

Nothing. He didnt move. 

Even when you stuck a leg up his nose, Gary slept without stirring. 

Why is he so wrecked? you wondered. Has he been wearing out my body? 

Furious, you ran across Garys face and climbed down through his hair. 
Then you crawled onto his ear. BUZZ! you shouted as loudly as you could. BUZZ! 
BUZZ! BUZZ! 

Incredible as it seems, the new Gary didnt even budge. 

Just my luck. Dirk Davis was turning out to be the worlds soundest 
sleeper! 

you sighed and gave up. you crawled off Garys ear and flew around my old 
room, gazing down at my bed, my dresser, and my computer. 

My computer! you cried excitedly. Maybe you can put a message on the 



screen! Maybe you can tell my parents what has happened to me! 

you swooped down to the computer, buzzing eagerly. 

Yes! The computer had been left on. 

What luck! you knew you werent heavy enough to push the Power button. 

Would you be strong enough to type? 

A clear blue screen greeted me on the monitor. My heart pounding, you 
lowered myself to the keyboard and started hopping around on the letters. 

Yes! you were heavy enough to make the keys go up and down. 

you paused, resting on the Enter key. 

What should you type? What message should you put on the screen? 

What? What? What? 

As you frantically thought, you heard Gary stir behind me on the bed. He let 
out a groan. He was waking up. 

Quick! you told myself. Type something! Type anything! 

Hell see it as soon as he gets out of bed. 

you hopped over to the letters and began to jump up and down, spelling out 
my desperate message. 

It was hard work. My bee eyes werent made for reading letters. And you kept 
leaping up and falling in the cracks between the keys. 

After eight or nine jumps, you were gasping for air. 

But you finished my message just as Gary sat up in bed and stretched. 
Floating up in front of the monitor, you struggled to read what you had typed: 

you AM NOT BEE. you AM GARY. HELO ME. 

Through my blurred vision, you saw that you missed the P in HELP and hit the O 
instead. you wanted to go back and fix it. But you were totally wiped out. you could barely 
buzz. 

Would they understand? 

Would they read the message and see me standing on top of the monitor and 
understand? 

Gary would understand. you knew he would. Dirk Davis would figure it out. 
you climbed wearily to the top of the monitor and watched him climb out of 

bed. 

Here he comes, you saw eagerly. He brushed his hair out of his eyes. He 
yawned. He stretched again. 



Over here! you urged. 

Dirk  pleasecheck out the computer monitor! 

Dirkover here! 

He picked up a crumpled pair of jeans off the floor and pulled them on. 
Then he found a wrinkled T-shirt to go with it. 

Come on, Dirk! you pleaded, hopping up and down on top of the monitor. 
Read the screenplease ? 



19 


Would he read it? 

Yes! Rubbing his eyes, Gary shuffled over to the computer. 

Yes! Yes! 

you nearly burst for joy as you watched him squint at the screen. Go ahead, 
Gary! Read it! Read it! you squeaked. 

He squinted at the screen some more, frowning. Did you leave that thing on 
overnight? he muttered, shaking his head. Wow. you must be losing it. 

He reached down and clicked off the power. Then he turned and made his 
way out of the room. 

Stunned, you toppled off the monitor, landing hard on the desk beside the 
keyboard. All that work for nothing. 

What was Garys problem, anyway? Doesnt he know how to read? 

Ive got to talk to him, you told myself, pulling myself together. Ive got to 
communicate with him somehow. 

you lifted my wings and floated up after him. you followed him through the 
kitchen, and then slipped through the back door with him. 

As he strode across the grass, you started buzzing around his head. But he 
didnt pay any attention to me. 

He crossed the yard and opened our garage door. Then he went inside and 
brought out my old skateboard. 

you hadnt used that skateboard in at least two years. My uncle had given it to 
me for my tenth birthday, and you almost broke my leg trying to ride it. After that, you 
put it away and refused to touch it again. 

Dont get on that thing! you yelled at Gary. Its dangerous. You might 
hurt my body. And you want it back in one piece! 

Of course Gary didnt even notice me. Instead, he carried the skateboard 
out in front of the house and put it down on the ground. 

A short while later, Kaitlyn and Judy walked up the sidewalk. you waited for 
them to start giggling and making fun of the new me. 

Hi, Gary, Kaitlyn said. She brushed some curly hair off her forehead and 
smiled. Are we late for our skateboarding lesson? 

Gary flashed her a big smile. No way, Kaitlyn, he answered in my 



voice. Want to head over to the playground like we did yesterday? 

you couldnt believe my ears. Skateboarding lesson? Head over to the 
playground like we did yesterday? What was going on around here? 

you hope you dont mind, Gary, Judy said. We told some of the other kids 
like Gail and Louiehow good you are. They all said they cant wait to take a 
lesson from you, too. Is that okay? Because if it isnt, we can call them, and 

No problem, Jude, Gary broke in. Lets get going, okay? The new 
me hopped onto his skateboard and smoothly rolled his way down the 
sidewalk. Judy and Kaitlyn hurried after him. 

For a second, you were too shocked to move. But then you decided to follow 
them. 

As you swooped after them, you kept muttering to myself, you cant believe it! 
Lutz the Klutz is giving skateboard lessons at the playground? Everybodys 
waiting for him to show up? What is going on? 

A few minutes later, the four of us had reached the playground. Sure 
enough, a whole gang of kids was waiting there for Gary. He put down his 
skateboard and started giving everybody pointers on boarding, as he called it. 

you buzzed over to him and started shouting in his ear again. Dirk! you 
shouted. Dirk Davis! Its me. The real Gary Lutz! 

Very casually, he swatted me away. 

you tried to speak to him again. This time he swatted me really hard, sending 
me spinning to the ground. 

Trying to shake off the pain, you gave up. Dirk isnt going to help me, you 
realized. 

Ms. Karmen is my only hope. After all, she was the one with all the 
equipment. She was the only person who could reverse what she had done. 

you flew onto a tree and tried to figure out which way to fly. When youre an 
insect, everything looks different to you. Things that seem small to a person 
appear huge to a bee. So you wanted to be sure you didnt get myself mixed up and fly 
off in the wrong direction. 

Standing on a big leaf, you gazed up and down the block until you were sure you 
knew which way to go. As you got ready to take off, a large shadow suddenly 
loomed over my head. At first, you thought it was a small bird. But then you realized it 
was a dragonfly. 

Stay calm, you told myself. A dragonfly is an insect, isnt it? And insects 
dont eat each other, right? 



you guess no one had told the dragonfly. 

Before you could move, it zoomed down, wrapped its teeth around my middle, 
and bit me in two. 



20 


you uttered a last gasp and waited for everything to go dark. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that the dragonfly had turned and 
buzzed off in the other direction. 

My imagination was running away with me. Thats what always happened 
when you got overtired. 

you took a deep breath, grateful to still be in one piece. you decided you had to use 
my remaining strength to get to Ms. Karmen at the Person-to-Person Vacations 
office. 

you rose up into the air, looked both ways for oncoming dragonfly traffic, then 
fluttered away. 

After a long, tiring trip, you floated past a street sign that told me Id made it 
to the right block. Roach Street. 

you buzzed along the sidewalk until you came to the Person-to-Person building. 
Then you sat down on the stoop and tried to figure out how you were going to get 
inside. 

Luckily, as you rested on the warm cement, you saw a mailman marching up the 
street, stopping at each house along his route. Quickly, you flew over to the Person- 
to-Person entrance and checked it out. Just as Id hoped, there was a mail slot in 
the middle of the door. 

you buzzed over to the doorknob, and waited for my chance. Slowly, the 
mailman trudged up to the building. 

Hurry up! you screamed at him. Do you think you have all day here? Of 
course he couldnt hear me. 

He fumbled around in his bag and pulled out a bundle of letters. Then, 
slowly, he reached out and pushed open the mail slot. 

Before the mailman had a chance to react, you swooped down in front of his 
nose and buzzed right through the mail slot. As you zipped along, you heard him gasp, 
and you knew hed seen me. But for once, luck was with me. you moved so quickly, 
there hadnt been any time for the mailman to try to swat me. 

My luck held when you flew up the stairs. 

Id just reached the top when the door to Person-to-Person Vacations 
opened, and a girl about my age came out. She had long, curly red hair and had a 



serious, thoughtful expression on her face. Was she thinking of trading places 
with someone? 

Go home! you shouted at her. And dont come back. Stay away from this 
place! Just look what happened to me! 

Even though you were screaming, the girl didnt even turn her head. But she 
left the door open just long enough for me to buzz into the Person-to-Person 
office. 

you flew across the waiting room and saw Ms. Karmen, sitting in the same 
chair shed been in when you first met her. 

you shot right toward herand smacked into something hard. 

Pain roared through my body. you dropped to the floor, dizzy and confused. 

As my head began to clear, you remembered the glass wall separating Ms. 
Karmen from the waiting area. Like some kind of brainless June bug, Id crashed 
right into it! 

you shook myself to clear my mind. Ms. Karmen! you yelled. Ms. Karmen. 
Its meGary Lutz. Look what happened! Can you help me? Can you? 



21 


Ms. Karmen didnt even glance up from her paperwork. Once again, you realized 
no one could hear my squeaky insect voice. 

With a defeated moan, you sank down onto the seat of the chair and curled up 
into a tiny ball. Id come all this way for nothing, you realized. Id found the one 
person in the world who might be able to help me. And she couldnt even hear 
me! 

you give up, you whispered sadly. Its hopeless. you have to get used to the idea 
of being a bee forever! Theres no way Ill ever get my old body back. 

you had never been so miserable in all my life. you wished someone would come 
along, drop into the chair, and sit on me! 

A strange sound startled me from my unhappy thoughts. you sat up straight 
and listened hard. 

Whoo-ah. Whoo-ah.  It almost sounded like someone breathing. But how 
could that be? It was so loud! 

you floated up off the chair and buzzed around the room, trying to find out 
where the sound was coming from. you had circled the room twice before you figured 
it out. 

Ms. Karmen was bending over to pick up something shed dropped on the 
floor. Her nose and mouth were only inches from the top of her desk. And the 
microphone she used to talk to people had picked up the sounds of her breathing! 

Suddenly, you had a brilliant idea. If you could get to the other side of the glass, you 
could use the microphone to make Ms. Karmen hear me. 

you swooped over to the wall and flew straight up to the ceiling. No luck 
there. The sheet of glass went all the way up. There was no space for me to 
wedge myself through to the other side. 

you buzzed down to the place where the glass met the top of Ms. Karmens 
desk. Yes! There was a small slot in the glass. you remembered how she had passed 
through the book of photographs on my first visit to the office. 

The slot wasnt very large. But it was plenty big enough for my round little 
bee body. 

you shot through the hole and jumped up on top of the microphone. 

Ms. Karmen! you shouted, putting my mouth next to the hard metal. Ms. 



Karmen! 

Her eyes opened wide. Her mouth dropped open in confusion. She stared 
out into the waiting room, searching for the person speaking. 

Its Gary Lutz! you called out. And Im down here on your microphone. 

Ms. Karmen stared down at the microphone. Then her eyes narrowed in 
fear. Whats going on? Whos doing this? Is this a joke? 

No! you cried. Its no joke at all. Its really meGary Lutz! 

Butbut she stammered, but no other words came out. Whats the 
joke? How are you doing that? 

Her voice was so loud, the sound waves nearly blasted me off the 
microphone. 

You dont have to yell! you cried. you can hear you. 

you dont believe this! she exclaimed in a trembling voice. She stared down 
at me. 

Its all your fault! you shouted angrily. You messed up the transfer 
operation. When you made the switch, one of my neighbors bees must have 
gotten into the machine. So, instead of putting me into Dirk Davis body, you put 
me into a bee!  

Ms. Karmen blinked. Then she slapped her forehead. Well that explains 
it! she cried. That explains why Dirk Davis body has been behaving so 
strangely. 

She picked up some papers on her desk and started putting them into her 
briefcase. you really must apologize, she said. you feel really bad, Gary. Weve 
never had a mix-up like this before. you hope... you hope its at least been interesting 
for you. 

Interesting? you shrieked. Its been a nightmare! You wouldnt believe 
what Ive been through. Ive been attacked by screen doors, cats, flyswatters 
you name it! You yourself almost ran me over with your car! 

All the color drained from her face. Oh, no, she cried, her voice a 
whisper. Im so sorry. Iyou didnt know. 

Well, what about it? you asked her impatiently. 

What about what? 

What about getting me back into my body! Can you do it right away? 

Ms. Karmen cleared her throat. Well, you could, she replied slowly. 
Normally, you could transfer you right back. But theres a slight problem in your 
case. 



What kind of problem? you demanded. 

Its Dirk Davis, Ms. Karmen replied. It seems hes become very attached 
to your old body. He likes your house and your parents, too. In fact, he even 
likes your sister, Krissy! 

So? you cried. So whats that supposed to mean? 

Ms. Karmen stood up and pushed in her desk chair. It means, she said, 
that Dirk Davis is refusing to give up your old body. He says he absolutely 
wont go back to his old life. He plans to keep your body forever. 



22 


WHAT? you screamed, hopping up and down angrily on the microphone. 

Just what you said, Ms. Karmen said. Dirk Davis wants to keep your body 
for the rest of his life. 

But he cant do that, can he? 

It is very upsetting, she replied, biting her lower lip. It wasnt what he 
said in our original agreement. But if he refuses to get out of your body and your 
life, theres really nothing you can do. 

Ms. Karmen gazed down at me sympathetically. Im so sorry about this, 
Gary, she said softly. you guess Ill have to be more careful in the future. 

What about my future? What am you supposed to do now? you wailed. 

Ms. Karmen shrugged. you dont know. Maybe you could go back, wait in 
the hiveand maybe Dirk Davis will change his mind. 

Back to the hive?! My antennas stood straight on end, quivering with 
rage. Do you have any idea what its like in there? Cramped together with those 
hairy bees in the darkness? Listening to that deafening buzz day and night? 

Its a way of staying alive, Ms. Karmen replied bluntly. 

Iyou dont care! you stammered. Im never going back there! Never! 

This is tragic. Tragic! Ms. Karmen cried. Ill give your case some 
thought tonight, Gary. you promise. Maybe you can come up with a way of getting 
your body away from Dirk. 

She crossed the room and opened the office door. Im so upset. So upset, 
she murmured. Then she disappeared out the door, slamming it behind her. 

Trembling with anger at Dirk Davis, you hopped down to the desk. Hey, 
wait! you called after her. Youve locked me in! 

Ms. Karmen was so upset, she forgot about me! 

you rose up into the air and started after her. But, then, you happened to glance 
back down at her desk. Dirk Davis questionnaire was right on top of a pile of 
papers. His address was next to his name. He lived at 203 Eastwood Avenue. 

Eastwood Avenue was near the computer store, so you knew where it was. 
Maybe the old Dirk Davis will know how to get my body back! you told myself. 

It was worth a try. you ducked through the slot in the glass and flew around the 
waiting room. 



No exit. No open window. No crack in the door. 

Once again, you were trapped. 

Frantically, you buzzed all around the waiting room. Then you went back through 
the slot in the glass. you checked out the whole equipment room. Every window 
was closed tight. 

you flew past a calendar and happened to see the date. Oh, no! you cried. Its 
Friday! Its the weekend. Ms. Karmen might not come back to work for two 
whole days. 

In two days, you realized, you would starve to death! 

you had to get out! you went over to the far wall and noticed another door you 
hadnt seen before. you zipped through it. 

The room turned out to be a tiny bathroom. With one small window. Which 
was open just a crack. It was all you needed. 

Hurray! you yelled. you shot out through the window and sailed into the open 
air. Then you turned right and headed for Eastwood Avenue. Luckily, it wasnt very 
far away. All this flying around was really beginning to wear me out. 

you found Dirk Davis house without any trouble. When you got there, you saw 
Dirk himselfor whoever he was nowstanding in the front yard. you 
recognized him from the picture Id seen in the Person-to-Person album. 

Hey! you yelled to him. Hey, er... Dirk! 

The tall, good-looking boy turned around and stared at me. His mouth 
moved, and it looked as if he was saying something. 

But you couldnt understand any words. All you heard was a humming sound. 

Im Gary Lutz! you cried in my little voice. Can you help me get Dirk 
Davis out of my body? 

The boy stared at me. Then he grinned. 

you were confused. What was he grinning about? 

Hey, you can hear me!  you cried. 

Now Dirk motioned with his hand. 

You want me to follow you? you asked. you felt excited. Are you taking me 
someplace where we can get help? 

Dirk grinned again. Then he turned and walked around the corner of the 
house. you didnt know where we were going. But you knew you had to follow him. 

you found Dirk in the back yard. Hum, he said to me. Hum. He pointed 
to a big rosebush and grinned. Then he stuck his nose deep inside one of the 
blossoms. Hummmmmmmmm, he said. Yummmmmm. 



you gaped at him in shock. Of course! you cried. 

You got the bees mind when you got the bees body! 

Dirk didnt say anything. But when he pulled his face out of the rose, the 
end of his nose was covered with yellow pollen. 

Dirk looked a little surprised. And disappointed. you guess he missed his 
long, sucking tonguethe tongue that was now hanging off the front of my face. 

You cant help me, you muttered to him. Youre in worse shape than you am! 

Hum? he replied. Hum? 

He looked kind of silly with that yellow nose. But you felt sorry for him. He 
and you had the wrong brains in the wrong bodies. you knew exactly how he felt. 

Im going to go get help for both of us, you told him. If you get my body 
back, maybe youll get yours, too. 

With a loud buzz, you flew out of the Davises yard. As you left, you thought you heard 
Dirk buzz back at me. you glanced over my wing and saw him sticking his face 
into another rose. Maybe this time hed have better luck getting the pollen out. 

you headed toward my own house. This time you planned to make Dirk Davis 
give me my body back. Or else. 

As you turned up my street, you suddenly heard a familiar voice coming from 
behind a tree. 

Dont mess with me! Dont mess with me, man! 

you couldnt believe it. The voice belonged to Marv. But who was he talking 
to? 

you shot around the tree to find out. To my surprise, you saw that Marv was 
talking to meor, Dirk Davis, in my body. Barry and Karl were right beside 
him. 

Look out, Dirk! you thought. Run! Run! 

Please dont let them wreck my body! 

But you were too late. 

Barry, Marv, and Karl were closing in on him, about to give him the 
pounding of his life. 



23 


you flew closer. 

Look out, Dirk! Look out! you squeaked. 

But to my surprise, the three hulking creeps werent moving in on Gary 
they were backing away from him! 

Dont mess with me! Marv cried. you said you were sorry. 

We apologized, Barry whined. Dont hit us again, Gary! Please! 

Karl whimpered behind him, nursing a bloody nose. 

You guys are losers, you heard Gary tell them. Take a hike. Go get a 

life. 

Okay! Okay! Marv cried. Just no more rough stuff, okay, Gary? 

Gary shook his head and walked away. 

you dont believe this! you thought gleefully. Barry, Marv, and Karl were afraid 
of me! 

you decided Id have some fun with them, too. 

you swooped down and landed on Barrys nose, buzzing as loudly and 
menacingly as you could. 

Yowwwww! he shrieked in surpriseand swatted himself on the nose. 

you were too fast for him. you were already on Karls ear. 

Karl cried out and toppled backwards into a thorny rosebush. 

Then you buzzed round and around Marv. 

Get away! he shouted angrily. 

And you flew right into his mouth. 

His scream nearly deafened me. But it was worth it. 

Marv started spitting and choking and gagging. 

you flew up into the air, laughing so hard, you nearly popped my antennas. That 
was the most fun Id had since becoming a bee! 

you watched the three gorillas run away. Then you flew up the block to my house. 

Gary had left the window open, and you were able to shoot in. He was lying 
on my bed, reading one of my comic books and eating crackers with honey on 
them. 

The honey smelled really good, and you realized you were hungry again. you 



reminded myself to stop by a flower and get a snack the next time you went 
outside. 

But, meanwhile, you had work to do. you flew over and landed on Garys 
earlobe. 

Hey, you! Dirk Davis! you yelled at the top of my little voice. you need to talk 
to you! 

He reached a hand up and flicked me off his face. you fell down and landed 
with a bounce on the bed. 

you buzzed angrily and shot right back up to his earlobe. Hey, you! you want my 
body back! You have to get out of it. Now! 

Gary folded up his comic book and swung it at me. you buzzed with rage 
and frustration. you werent going to give up this time. No way! you had to make him 
hear me. 

you rocketed up in the air and landed on the top of his head. Then you climbed 
down to his other earlobe and tried one more time. Im not leaving you alone 
till you get out of my body! you screeched. Do you hear me? 

He sighed and shrugged his shoulders. Will you please quit bothering 
me? he asked. Cant you see Im trying to relax? 

You can hear me? 

Yeah. Sure, he muttered. you can hear you okay. 

You can? you were so surprised, you almost fell off his ear. 

Yes, you can hear you perfectly. Weird, huh? Im not sure why. But you think 
some bee cells got mixed up with my human cells during our electronic transfer. 
you can hear all kinds of little bug noises now. 

Your human cells? Those are my human cells! you cried. 

Dirk shrugged. 

Enough chitchat, you told him. When do you plan to get out of my body? 

Never, he replied. He picked up his comic book and started reading it 
again. you like your body. you cant understand why you gave it up to go become a 
bee. 

That wasnt my idea! you screamed. 

Youve got a good life here, he continued. you mean, you have great 
parents. Krissy is an okay sister. And Claus is an awesome cat. Too bad you 
didnt know all that when you were in your body. Which is now my body! 

Its not your body! Its mine! Give it back! you started to buzz furiously all 
around his head, swooping down in front of his nose, crashing into his ears, 



batting my wings in his eyes. 

Dirk Davis didnt even flinch. 

Whats the matter with you, anyway? you yelled. Youre me now. Youre 
supposed to be scared of bees! 

Gary laughed. Youve forgotten something, he said. Im not you. Im 
just inside your body. Im still me inside. And Im not the least bit afraid of 
bees! 

And, now, he went on, take a hike, okay? Buzz off. Im busy. 

Frozen with anger and disappointment, you slumped on the bedspread without 
moving. Gary raised the comic book up into the air. Id hate to swat you, he 
said. But you will if you have to! 

you dodged away just as the comic book slapped down on the bedspread. Then 
you shot back out the window. 

For a few minutes, you flew aimlessly around, lost in my sad thoughts. Finally, 
you remembered how hungry you were. you perched on top of a big, orange lily blossom 
and started sucking up some nectar. 

Not bad, you told myself as you drank. But honey on crackers would be much 
better. 

What am you supposed to do now? you asked myself. Am you really doomed to 
be a bee for the rest of my life? you pulled my head out of the orange blossom and 
looked around. And how long is the rest of my life anyway? 

you remembered a page from The Big Book of Bees. 

The life of the average bee is not very long. While the queen can live 
through as many as five winters, the workers and drones die off in the fall. 

In the fall? 

It was already nearly August! 

If you stayed in this bee body, you had only a month or two at most! 

you gazed sadly up at my house. Gary had turned the light on in my room, 
and it twinkled in the early evening dusk. 

How you wished you could be up there! Why, why had you ever been stupid enough 
to think Id be better off in someone elses body? 

Then you heard a buzz. you peered over the blossom. Sure enough, you saw a bee. 

He hopped up onto the flower. Two other bees quickly joined him. Then 
three more. They buzzed angrily. 

Go away! you cried. 

you tried to fly away. 



But before you could lift off, they all swarmed over me. 

you couldnt move. The bees had taken me prisoner. 

Dont take me back to the hive! you shrieked. Dont take me back! 
But to my horror, they started to drag me away. 



24 


you struggled to squirm away. But they turned their stingers on me. 

Were they some kind of bee police? Did they think you were trying to escape 
the hive? 

you didnt have a chance to discuss it with them. They lifted me up into the air. 
There were bees in front of me, bees behind, and bees on all sides. 

We flew past my bedroom window. Help! you called. 

Gary glanced up from his plate of crackers and honey. He smiled and 
waved at me. 

you were so angry, you thought you might explode. 

But then an idea came to me. A crazy idea. A desperate idea. 

you buzzed as loudly as you could. Then you darted out of line and shot into the 
open bedroom window. 

Were the others following me? Were they? 

Yes! 

They didnt want to let me escape. 

Gary sat up when he saw me and my buzzing followers. He rolled up his 
comic book, preparing to swat us. 

you circled the room, and the other bees followed. 

Get out! Get out! Gary screamed. 

There werent enough of us, you decided. you needed a huge swarm. 

you flew back out the window. The others buzzed after me. 

Now you were the head bee. As fast as you could, you led my group back to Mr. 
Andrettis garage, and in through the hole in the screen. 

you hesitated at the hive entrance. you took a deep breath. 

Was you really going to go back inside? 

you knew you had no choice. Go for it, Lutz! you shouted to myself. 

you shot in through the entrance hole. 

Then you began flying crazily through the hive, buzzing angrily, bumping the 
walls, bumping other bees. 

The hive stirred to life. 

The buzzing grew to a dull roar. Then a loud roar. Then a deafening roar! 



Round and round you raged, flying faster, faster, throwing myself frantically 
against the sticky hive walls, tumbling, darting, buzzing furiously. 

The entire hive was in an uproar now. 

you had turned the bees into an angry swarm. 

Out of the hive you flew. Out into the darkening evening. Out through the hole 
in the screen, up, up, and away. 

And the bees swarmed after me, like a black cloud against the gray-blue 

sky. 

Up we soared. Up, up. 

A buzzing, swarming funnel cloud. 

Up, up. 

you led them up to the bedroom window. 

Tumbling over each other, raging through the air, we swarmed into 
Garys room. 

Huh? He jumped off the bed. 

He didnt have time to say a word. 

you landed in his hair. The raging swarm followed, buzzing angrily, 
surrounding him, covering his head, his face, his shoulders. 

H-help! His weak cry was drowned out by the roar of the bees. Help 

me! 

you dropped down onto the tip of Garys nose. Have you had enough? you 
demanded. Are you ready to give me back my body? 

Never! he cried. you dont care what you do to me! Youll never get your 
body back! Its mine, and Im keeping it forever! 

Whoooa! you could not believe my ears. 

you mean, he was covered in bees! And still he wouldnt listen to reason! 

you didnt know what to do. 

The other bees were starting to lose interest. 

Some of them drifted to the plate of honey. Most of them floated back out 
the open window. 

You cant get away with this, Dirk! you screamed. 

With a furious wail, you whirled around. Then you stabbed my razor-sharp 
stinger deep into the side of Garys nose. 

Owwwwwww! He let out a high-pitched shriek and grabbed at his nose. 
Then he staggered backwards and fell over onto the bed. 

Yaaaaay! you cried out in celebration. 



For one instant, you felt triumphant. 

A tiny bee had defeated a huge enemy! you were victorious! you had won a fight 
against a giant! 

My celebration didnt last very long. 

you suddenly realized what you had done. And you remembered what happens to a 
honeybee after it stings someone. 

Im going to die, you murmured weakly. you stung someone, and now Im 
going to die! 



25 


Weaker. 

you felt the strength drain from me. 

Weaker and weaker. 

What have you done? you asked myself. you gave up my life for the chance to 
sting Dirk Davis! Why was you such a jerk? 

you struggled to keep my wings moving, struggled to stay in the air. 

you knew you were doomed. But you wanted to stay alive as long as you could. Maybe, 
you thought, as you felt my strength fading, maybe Ill have a chance to tell my family 
good-bye. 

Mom! Dad! Krissy! you buzzed faintly. Where are you? 

It was hard to breathe. you felt so tired, so weak. 

you floated out the window and sank to the grass below. 

you thought you recognized the shape of the old maple tree where you used to read 
books and spy on Mr. Andretti. But my sight was so bad, it was hard to be sure 
about anything. The whole world swirled in gray shadow. 

you could no longer hold up my head. The gray shadows grew darker and 
darker. 

Until the world faded completely from view. 

you sat up slowly. The ground spun beneath me. 

Where was I? 

My back yard? 

you blinked, struggling to bring it all into focus, waiting for my eyes to clear. 

Theres the old maple tree! you cried. And theres my house! And theres 
Mr. Andrettis house! 

Was you alive? 

Was you really alive, sitting in my back yard, seeing all the familiar places? 

Did you have my strength back? 

you decided to test it. you tried to spread my wings and fly up into the air. 

But for some reason, my wings didnt seem to be working. My body felt 
heavy and strange. 



you frowned and looked down, inspecting myself to see what was wrong. 
Whoooa! you cried out in surprise. Instead of six legs, you saw two arms and two 
legs and my skinny old body. 

Breathlessly, you reached up to touch my face. My extra eyes were goneand 
so were my antennas, and my layer of feathery fuzz. Instead, you felt hair! And 
smooth, human skin! 

you jumped up and shouted for joy. Im a person again! Im me! Im me! 

you threw my arms around my chest and gave myself a hug. Then you danced 
around the back yard, testing my arms and legs. 

They worked! They all worked! 

you couldnt get over how wonderful it was to be human again! 

But how did it happen? you asked myself. What happened to Dirk Davis? 

For a chilling instant, you wondered if Dirk had been forced into a bees body 
the way you had. 

Probably not, you decided. 

But what had happened? 

How did you get my body back? 

Was it the bee sting? Did the shock of the sting send us all back to the 
bodies we belonged in? 

Ive got to call Ms. Karmen and find out! you realized. 

But for now, all you wanted to do was see my family. 

you hurried up the back steps and into the house. As you ran through the kitchen, 
you crashed right into Krissy. As usual, she was carrying Claus under one arm. 

Watch where youre going! Krissy snapped at me. 

She probably expected me to snap back at her and try to push her out of my 
way. But instead you grabbed her shoulders and gave her a big hug. Then you planted 
a kiss on her cheek. 

Yuck! Gross! she cried and wiped the cheek with her hand. 

you laughed happily. 

Dont give me your cooties, creep! Krissy cried. 

Youre a creep! you replied. 

No, youre a creep! she repeated. 

Youre a jerk! you shouted. 

It felt so good to be calling her names again! 

you gleefully called her a few more things. Then you hurried upstairs to see my 
parents. 



you met them as they were coming out of my room. 

Mom! Dad! you cried. you hurried to them, planning to throw my arms around 
them. 

But they thought you were just trying to get into my room. Dont go in there, 
Gary, warned my dad. You left your window open again, and a swarm of bees 
got in there. 

Youd better go next door, Mom said. Get Mr. Andretti. Hell know how 
to get them out. 

you couldnt hold back any longer. you threw my arms around my mothers neck 
and gave her a big kiss. Mom, you missed you so much! 

My mother hugged me back, but you saw her exchange a curious look with my 
dad. Gary? she asked. Are you okay? How could you miss me when youve 
been right here in this house? 

Well... you thought fast. you meant that you missed spending time with you. We 
really need to do more things together. 

My mother spread one hand over my forehead. No. No temperature, she 
told my father. 

Gary, Dad said impatiently. Would you mind running over and getting 
Mr. Andretti? If we dont get those bees out of your room, youll never be able 
to go to sleep tonight! 

Bees? you said casually. Hey, no problem. Ill take care of them. 

you reached out and started to open my door. Before you could, Dad grabbed my 
arm. Gary! he cried in alarm. Whats the matter with you? There are bees in 
your room! B-E-E-S. Dont you rememberyoure scared of bees! 

you stared back at him and thought about what hed said. To my surprise, you 
realized you were no longer the slightest bit scared of bees! In fact, you were actually 
looking forward to seeing them again. 

No problem, Dad, you told him. you guess you must have outgrown that, or 
something. 

you opened the door and went into my room. Sure enough, there was the old 
swarm, buzzing away over the plate of honey and crackers on the bed. 

Hi, guys! you said cheerfully. Time to leave now! 

you walked over to the bed and waved my hands at them, trying to shoo them 
back out the window. A few of them buzzed angrily at me. 

you laughed to myself. Then you picked up the plate of crackers and honey and 
dumped it out the window. Go get it! you told them. 



you shooed them gently out the window. 

Good-bye! you called to them as they left. Thanks! Take good care of the 
honeycombs! Ill try to come visit as soon as you can! 

When the last bee was gone, you turned around and saw my parents. They 
were standing absolutely motionless in the doorway, staring at me, frozen with 
shock. 

Dad? you said. Mom? 

My dad blinked and seemed to come back to life. He crossed the room and 
put a hand on my shoulder. Gary? Are you feeling all right? 

Just fine, you replied, grinning happily. Just fine. 



26 


That whole crazy adventure happened about a month ago. 

Now its nearly fall. Im sitting in my favorite place under the maple tree in 
the back yard, reading a book and chomping down taco chips. 

you just love coming out here. All the fall flowering plants are in bloom, and 
the yard is really pretty. 

Ive been spending the last few days of my summer vacation relaxing back 
here. Of course, you also go to the playground a lot. 

The other day you ran into that girl with the red hair you saw coming out of the 
Person-to-Person office. We started talking, and you didnt trip over my own feet or 
anything. She seems very nice. you hope she doesnt plan to switch lives with 
anybody else! 

That conversation and a lot of things have made me realize that my short 
life as a bee really changed me. 

First of all, it taught me to appreciate my family for the first time ever. My 
parents are pretty nice. And my sister is okay. For a sister. 

And now, Im not scared of any of the things you used to be scared of. 
Yesterday, you walked right by Marv, Barry, and Karl, and you didnt bat an eye. 

In fact, when you remembered how you buzzed them, you almost burst out laughing. 

Im not at all scared of them anymore. And Im different in other ways, too. 

Im a lot better at sports and bike riding and things. And Im a great 
skateboarder now. In fact, you still give lessons. Judy and Kaitlyn hang around me 
all the time. And Gail and Louie, too. 

The other day, you actually ran into Dirk Davis at the playground. At first, you 
didnt want to talk to him. But then he turned out to be pretty nice. 

He apologized to me. Im sorry you tried to steal your body, he said. But 
things didnt turn out so well for me, either. That bee flunked all my math tests 
in summer school! 

We both had a good laugh about that. And now Dirk and you are friends. 

So all in all, my life is back to normal. 

you feel terrific, totally normal. 

In fact, you feel much better than normal. 

Its so great to sit here in the back yard, reading and relaxing, smelling the 



fresh fall air, enjoying the flowers. 

Mmmmmm. 

Those hollyhocks are really awesome. 

Excuse me a moment while you get up and take a closer look. 

That blossom down near the ground is so perfect. 

you think Ill get down on my knees to take a quick taste. 

Do you know how to suck the pollen out? 

Ive figured out the best way. Its not as hard as it looks. 

You just pucker your lips and stick your tongue way out like this, see? 

Then you dip your face down into the blossom and suck up all the pollen 
you want. 

Try it. 

Go ahead. 

Mmmmmmmm. 

Go ahead. Its easy. Really! 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 





Michael, your shoes untied. 

My sister, Tara, sat on the front steps, grinning at me. Another one of 
her dumb jokes. 

Im not an idiot. you knew better than to look down at my shoe. If you did, 
shed slap me under the chin or something. 

Im not falling for that old trick, you told her. 

Mom had just called me and the brat inside for dinner. An hour before 
she had made us go outside because she couldnt stand our fighting 
anymore. 

It was impossible not to fight with Tara. 

When it comes to stupid tricks, Tara never knows when to quit. Im 
not kidding, she insisted. Your shoes untied. Youre going to trip. 

Knock it off, Tara, you said. you started up the front steps. 

My left shoe seemed to cling to the cement. you pulled it up with a jerk. 

Yuck! Id stepped on something sticky. 

you glanced at Tara. Shes a skinny little squirt, with a wide red mouth 
like a clowns and stringy brown hair that she wears in two pigtails. 

Everyone says she looks exactly like me. you hate it when they say that. 
My brown hair is not stringy, for one thing. Its short and thick. And my 
mouth is normal-sized. No one has ever said you look like a clown. 

Im a little short for my age, but not skinny. 

you do not look like Tara. 

She was watching me, giggling. Youd better look down, she taunted 
in her singsong voice. 

you glanced down at my shoe. It wasnt untied, of course. But Id just 
stepped on a huge wad of gum. If you had looked down to check my 
shoelaces, you would have seen it. 

But Tara knew you wouldnt look down. Not if she told me to. 

Tricked by Tara the Terror again. 

Youre going to get it, Tara, you grumbled. you tried to grab her, but she 
dodged out of reach and ran into the house. 



you chased her into the kitchen. She screamed and hid behind my mother. 

Mom! Hide me! Michaels going to get me! she shrieked. 

As if she were afraid of me. Fat chance. 

Michael Webster! Mom scolded. Stop chasing your little sister. 

She glanced at my feet and added, Is that gum on your shoe? Oh, 
Michael, youre tracking it all over the floor! 

Tara made me step on it! you whined. 

Mom frowned. Do you expect me to believe that? Michael, youre 
fibbing again. 

you am not! you cried. 

Mom shook her head in disgust. If youre going to tell a lie, Michael, 
at least make it a good one. 

Tara peeked out from behind Mom and taunted me. Yeah, Michael . 

Then she laughed. She loved this. 

Shes always getting me into trouble. My parents always blame me for 
stuff thats her fault. But does Tara ever do anything wrong? Oh, no, never. 
Shes a perfect angel. Not a bad bone in her body. 

Im twelve. Taras seven. Shes made the last seven years of my life 
miserable. 

Too bad you dont remember the first five very well. The pre-Tara years. 
They must have been awesome! Quiet and peacefuland fun! 

you went out to the back porch and scraped the sticky gum off my shoe. you 
heard the doorbell ring and Dad calling, Its here! Ill get it. 

Inside, everybody gathered around the front door. Two men were 
struggling to carry something heavy into the house. Something long and 
narrow and wrapped with padded gray cloth. 

Careful, Dad warned them. Its very old. Bring it in here. 

Dad led the delivery guys into the den. They set the thing down on one 
end and began to unwrap it. It was about as wide as me and maybe a foot 
taller. 

What is it? Tara asked. 

Dad didnt answer right away. He mbbed his hands together in 
anticipation. Our cat, Bubba, slinked into the room and rubbed against 
Dads legs. 

The gray cloth fell away, and you saw a very fancy old clock. It was 
mostly black but painted with lots of silver, gold, and blue designs, and 



decorated with scrolls, carvings, knobs, and buttons. 

The clock itself had a white face with gold hands and gold Roman 
numerals. you saw little secret doors hidden under the paint designs, and a big 
door in the middle of the clock. 

The delivery guys gathered up the gray padding. Dad gave them some 
money, and they left. 

Isnt it great? Dad gushed. Its an antique cuckoo clock. It was a 
bargain. You know that store across from my office, Anthonys Antiques 
and Stuff? 

We all nodded. 

Its been in the shop for fifteen years, Dad told us, patting the clock. 
Every time you pass Anthonys, you stop and stare at it. Ive always loved it. 
Anthony finally put it on sale. 

Cool, Tara said. 

But youve been bargaining with Anthony for years, and he always 
refused to lower the price, Mom said. Why now? 

Dads face lit up. Well, today you went into the shop at lunchtime, and 
Anthony told me hed discovered a tiny flaw on the clock. Something 
wrong with it. 

you scanned the clock. Where? 

He wouldnt say. Do you see anything, kids? 

Tara and you began to search the clock for flaws. All the numbers on the 
face were correct, and both the hands were in place. you didnt see any chips 
or scratches. 

you dont see anything wrong with it, Tara said. 

Me, either, you added. 

Neither do I, Dad agreed. you dont know what Anthonys talking 
about. you told him you wanted to buy the clock anyway. He tried to talk me out 
of it, but you insisted. If the flaw is so tiny we dont even notice it, what 
difference does it make? Anyway, you really do love this thing. 

Mom cleared her throat. you dont know, dear. Do you think it really 
belongs in the den? you could tell by her face that she didnt like the clock as 
much as Dad did. 

Where else could we put it? Dad asked. 

Wellmaybe the garage? 

Dad laughed. you get ityoure joking! 



Mom shook her head. She wasnt joking. But she didnt say anything 
more. 

you think this clock is just what the den needs, honey, Dad added. 

On the right side of the clock you saw a little dial. It had a gold face and 
looked like a miniature clock. But it had only one hand. 

Tiny numbers were painted in black along the outside of the dial, 
starting at 1800 and ending at 3000. The thin gold hand pointed to one of 
the numbers: 2003. 

The hand didnt move. Beneath the dial, a little gold button had been 
set into the wood. 

Dont touch that button, Michael, Dad warned. This dial tells the 
current year. The button moves the hand to change the year. 

Thats kind of silly, Mom said. Who ever forgets what year it is? 

Dad ignored her. See, the clock was built in 1800, where the dial 
starts. Every year the pointer moves one notch to show the date. 

So why does it stop at three thousand? Tara asked. 

Dad shrugged. you dont know. you guess the clock-maker couldnt 
imagine the year three thousand would ever come. Or maybe he figured the 
clock wouldnt last that long. 

Maybe he thought the world would blow up in 2999, you suggested. 

Could be, Dad said. Anyway, please dont touch the dial. In fact, you 
dont want anyone touching the clock at all. Its very old and very, very 
delicate. Okay? 

Okay, Dad, Tara said. 

you wont touch it, you promised. 

Look, Mom said, pointing at the clock. Its six oclock. Dinners 
almost 

Mom was interrupted by a loud gong. A little door just over the clock 
face slid openand a bird flew out. It had the meanest bird face you ever saw 
and it dove for my head. 

you screamed. Its alive! 



2 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The bird flapped its yellow feathers. Its eerie, bright blue eyes glared 
at me. It squawked six times. Then it jumped back inside the clock. The 
little door slid shut. 

Its not alive, Michael, Dad said, laughing. It sure is real-looking, 
though, isnt it? Wow! 

You birdbrain! Tara teased. You were scared! Scared of a cuckoo 
clock! She reached out and pinched me. 

Get off me, you growled. you shoved her away. 

Michael, dont push your sister, Mom said. You dont realize how 
strong you are. You could hurt her. 

Yeah, Michael, Tara said. 

Dad kept admiring the clock. He could hardly take his eyes off it. Im 
not surprised the cuckoo startled you, he said. Theres something special 
about this clock. It comes from the Black Forest of Germany. Its supposed 
to be enchanted. 

Enchanted? you echoed. You mean, magic? How? 

Legend has it that the man who built this clock had magical powers. 
He put a spell on the clock. They say if you know the secret, you can use 
the clock to go back in time. 

Mom scoffed. Did Anthony tell you that? What a great way to sell an 
old clock. Claim it has magic powers! 

Dad wouldnt let her spoil his fun. You never know, he said. It 
could be true. Why not? 

you think its true, Tara said. 

Herman, you wish you wouldnt tell the kids these wild stories, Mom 
chided. Its not good for them. And it only encourages Michael. Hes 
always making things up, telling fibs and impossible stories. you think he gets 
it from you. 

you protested. you dont make things up! you always tell the truth! 

How could Mom say that about me? 

you dont think it hurts the kids to use their imaginations once in a 



while, Dad said. 

Imagination is one thing, Mom said. Lies and fibs are something 
else. 

you fumed. Mom was so unfair to me. The worst part was the expression 
of victory on Taras face. 

Making me look bad was her mission in life. you wanted to wipe that 
smirk off her face forever. 

Dinners almost ready, Mom announced, leaving the den. The cat 
followed her. Michael, Tarago wash up. 

And remember, Dad warned. No one touches the clock. 

Okay, Dad, you said. 

Dinner smelled good. you started for the bathroom to wash up. As you 
passed Tara, she stomped hard on my foot. 

Ow! you yelled. 

Michael! Dad barked. Stop making so much noise. 

But, Dad, Tara stomped on my foot. 

It couldnt have hurt that much, Michael. Shes a lot smaller than you 

are. 

My foot throbbed. you limped to the bathroom. Tara followed me. 

Youre such a baby, she taunted. 

Be quiet, Tara, you said. How did you get the worst sister in the world? 

We had pasta with broccoli and tomato sauce for dinner. Mom was on 
a big no-meat, low-fat kick. you didnt mind. Pasta was better than what wed 
had the night beforelentil soup. 

You know, honey, Dad complained to Mom, a hamburger now and 
then never hurt anybody. 

you disagree, Mom said. She didnt have to say more. Wed all heard 
her lectures about meat and fat and chemicals before. 

Dad covered his pasta with a thick layer of Parmesan cheese. 

Maybe the den should be off-limits for a while, Dad suggested. you 
hate to think of you two playing in there and breaking the clock. 

But, Dad, you have to do my homework in the den tonight, you said. Im 
doing a report on Transportation in Many Lands. And you need to use the 
encyclopedia. 

Cant you take it up to your room? Dad asked. 

The whole encyclopedia? 



Dad sighed. No, you guess you cant. Well, all right. You can use the den 
tonight. 

you need to use the encyclopedia, too, Tara announced. 

You do not, you snapped. She wanted to hang around the den and bug 
me, that was all. 

you do, too. Im supposed to read about the gold rush. 

Youre making that up. You dont study the gold rush in the second 
grade. Thats not until fourth. 

What do you know about it? Mrs. Dolin is teaching us the gold rush 
now. Maybe Im in a smarter class than you were. 

Mom said, Michael, really. If Tara says she needs to use the 
encyclopedia, why start a fight about it? 

you sighed and stuffed a forkful of pasta in my mouth. Tara stuck her 
tongue out at me. 

Theres no point in talking, you thought. All it does is get me into trouble. 

you lugged my backpack into the den after dinner. No sign of Tarayet. 
Maybe Id be able to get some homework done before she came in and 
started pestering me. 

you dumped my books on Dads desk. The clock caught my eye. It wasnt 
prettykind of ugly, really. But you liked looking at all those scrolls and 
buttons and knobs. It really did seem as if the clock could be magic. 

you thought about the flaw Dad had mentioned. you wondered what it was. 
Some kind of bump? A missing notch on one of the gears? Maybe a piece 
of chipped paint? 

you glanced back at the door to the den. Bubba wandered through it, 
purring. you petted him. 

Mom and Dad were still in the kitchen, cleaning up after dinner. you 
didnt think it would matter if you just looked at the clock a little. 

Careful not to touch any buttons, you stared at the dial that showed the 
year. you ran my fingers along a curve of silver at the edge of the clock. you 
glanced at the little door over the face of the clock. you knew the cuckoo sat 
behind that door, waiting to leap out at the right time. 

you didnt want to be surprised by the bird again. you checked the time. Five 
minutes to eight. 

Under the face of the clock you saw another door. A big door. you touched 



its gold knob. 

Whats behind this door? you wondered. Maybe the gears of the clock, or 
a pendulum. 

you glanced over my shoulder again. No one was looking. No problem if 
you just peeked behind that big clock door. 

you tugged on the gold knob. The door stuck. you pulled harder. 

The door flew open. 

you let out a scream as an ugly green monster burst out of the clock. It 
grabbed me and knocked me to the floor. 



3 


Mom! Dad! Help! you shrieked. 

The monster raised its long claws over me. you covered my face, waiting 
to be slashed. 

Goochy goochy goo! The monster giggled and tickled me with its 
claws. 

you opened my eyes. Tara! Tara in her old Halloween costume! 

She rolled on the floor, giggling. Youre so easy to scare! she 
shouted. You should have seen your face when you jumped out of the clock! 

Its not funny! you cried. Its 

Gong. 

Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo! 

The bird popped out of the clock and started cuckooing. Okay, you admit 
it scared me again. But did Tara have to clutch her sides, laughing at me 
that way? 

Whats going on in here? Dad stood in the doorway, glaring down at 
us. 

He pointed at the clock. Whats that door doing open? Michael, you told 
you to stay away from the clock! 

ME? you cried. 

He was trying to catch the cuckoo, Tara lied. 

you thought so, Dad said. 

Dad, thats not true! Taras the one who 

Enough of that, Michael. Im sick of hearing you blame Tara every 
time you do something wrong. Maybe your mother is right. Maybe you have 
been encouraging your imagination a little too much. 

Thats not fair! you yelled. you dont have any imagination! you never make 
anything up! 

Dad, hes lying, Tara said. you came in here and saw him playing with 
the clock. you tried to stop him. 

Dad nodded, swallowing every word his precious Tara said. 

There was nothing you could do. you stormed off to my room and slammed 
the door. 



Tara was the biggest pain in the world, and she never got blamed for 
anything. She even mined my birthday. 

you turned twelve three days ago. Usually, people like their birthday. Its 
supposed to be fun, right? 

Not for me. Tara made sure my birthday was the worst day of my life. 
Or at least one of the worst. 

First, she ruined my present. 

you could tell my parents were very excited about this present. My 
mother kept hopping around like a chicken, saying, Dont go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, dont go in the garage! 

you knew shed hidden my present in there. But just to torture her, you 
asked, Why not? Why cant you go in the garage? The lock on my bedroom 
door is broken, and you need to borrow one of Dads tools.... 

No, no! Mom exclaimed. Tell your father to fix the lock. Hell get 
the tools. You cant go in there, because... well... theres a huge mound of 
trash in there. It really stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it! 

Sad, isnt it? And she thinks you get my imagination from Dad! 

All right, Mom, you promised. you wont go in the garage. 

And you didnteven though the lock on my door really was broken. you 
didnt want to spoil whatever surprise they had cooked up. 

They were throwing me a big birthday party that afternoon. A bunch of 
kids from school were coming over. Mom baked a cake and made snacks 
for the party. Dad ran around the house, setting up chairs and hanging crepe 
paper. 

Dad, would you mind fixing the lock on my door? you asked. 

you like my privacyand you need that lock. Tara had broken it a week 
earlier. Shed been trying to kickbox the door down. 

Sure, Michael, Dad agreed. Anything you say. After all, youre the 
birthday boy. 

Thanks. 

Dad took the toolbox upstairs and worked on the lock. Tara lounged 
around the dining room making trouble. As soon as Dad was gone, she 
pulled down a crepe paper streamer and left it lying on the floor. 

Dad fixed the lock and returned the tools to the garage. As he passed 
through the dining room, he noticed the torn-down streamer. 



Why wont this crepe paper stay up? he mumbled. He taped it back 
up. A few minutes later, Tara tore it down again. 

you know what youre doing, Tara, you told her. Stop trying to wreck my 
birthday. 

you dont have to wreck it, she said. Its bad all by itselfjust because 
its the day you were born. She pretended to shudder in horror. 

you ignored her. It was my birthday. Nothing could keep me from having 
fun, not even Tara. 

Thats what you thought 

About half an hour before the party, Mom and Dad called me into the 
garage. 

you pretended to go along with Moms silly story. What about the 
horrible trash? 

Oh, that, Mom clucked. you made it up. 

Really? you said. Wow. It was so believable. 

If you believed that, you must be a moron, Tara said. 

Dad threw open the garage door. you stepped inside. 

There stood a brand-new 21-speed bike. The bike Id wanted for a 
long time. 

The coolest bike Id ever seen! 

Do you like it? Mom asked. 

you love it! you cried. Its awesome! Thanks! 

Cool bike, Mike, Tara said. Mom, you want one of these for my 
birthday. 

Before you could stop her, she climbed up on the seat of my new bike. 

Tara, get off! you yelled. 

She didnt listen. She tried to reach her feet to the pedals, but her legs 
were too short. The bike fell over. 

Tara! Mom cried, running to the little brats side. Are you hurt? 

Tara stood up and brushed herself off. Im okay. you scraped my knee a 
little, though. 

you picked up my bike and inspected it. It was no longer perfectly shiny 
and black. There was a huge white scratch across the middle bar. 

It was practically ruined. 

Tara, you wrecked my bike!  

Lets not get overexcited, Michael, Dad said. Its only a scratch. 



Dont you even care about your sister? Mom asked. She couldve 
been hurt! 

Its her own fault! She shouldnt have touched my bike in the first 
place! 

Michael, you have a lot to learn about being a good brother, Dad 

said. 

They make me so mad sometimes! 

Lets go inside, Mom said. Your friends will be here soon. 

The party. you thought the party would make me feel better. After all, 
there would be cake, presents, and my best friends. What could go wrong? 

It started out okay. One by one my friends arrived, and they all brought 
me presents. Id invited five guys: David, Josh, Michael B., Henry, and 
Lars; and three girls: Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona. 

you werent so crazy about Ceecee and Rosie, but you really liked Mona. She 
has long, shiny brown hair and a turned-up nose thats kind of cute. Shes 
tall, and good at basketball. Theres something sort of cool about her. 

Ceecee and Rosie are Monas best friends. you had to invite them if you were 
going to invite Mona. They always go everywhere together. 

Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona arrived all at once. They took off their 
jackets. Mona was wearing pink overalls over a white turtleneck. She 
looked great. you didnt care what the other girls were wearing. 

Happy birthday, Michael! they all called out at the door. 

Thanks, you said. 

They each handed me a gift. Monas was small and flat and wrapped in 
silver paper. Probably a CD, you figured. But which one? What kind of CD 
would a girl like Mona think a guy like me would like? 

you set the presents on top of the pile in the living room. 

Hey, Michaelwhat did your parents give you? David asked. 

Just a bike, you said, trying to be cool about it. A twenty-one speed. 

you put on a CD. Mom and Tara brought in plates of sandwiches. Mom 
went back to the kitchen, but Tara stayed. 

Your little sister is so cute, Mona said. 

Not once you get to know her, you muttered. 

Michael! Thats not very nice, Mona said. 

Hes a terrible big brother, Tara told her. He yells at me all the 


time. 



you do not! Get lost, Tara. 

you dont have to. She stuck her tongue out at me. 

Let her stay, Michael, Mona said. Shes not bothering anybody. 

Hey, Mona, Tara chirped. You know, Michael really likes you. 

Monas eyes widened. He does? 

My face got red-hot. you glared at Tara. you wanted to strangle her right 
then and there. But you couldnttoo many witnesses. 

Mona started laughing. Ceecee and Rosie laughed, too. Luckily, the 
guys didnt hear this. They were around the CD player, skipping from cut to 
cut. 

What could you say? you did like Mona. you couldnt deny itit would hurt 
her feelings. But you couldnt admit it, either. 

you wanted to die. you wanted to sink through the floor and die. 

Michael, your face is all red! Mona cried. 

Lars heard this and called out, What did Webster do now? 

Some of the guys call me by my last name. 

you grabbed Tara and dragged her into the kitchen, Monas laughter 
ringing in my ears. 

Thanks a lot, Tara, you whispered. Why did you have to tell Mona you 
like her? 

Its true, isnt it? the brat said. you always tell the truth. 

Yeah, right! 

Michael Mom interrupted. Are you being mean to Tara again? 

you stormed out of the kitchen without answering her. 

Hey, Webster, Josh called when you returned to the living room. Lets 
see your new bike. 

Good, you thought. A way to get away from the girls. 

you led them to the garage. They all stared at the bike and nodded at each 
other. They seemed really impressed. Then Henry grabbed the handlebars. 

Hey, whats this big scratch? he said. 

you know, you explained. My sister... 

you stopped and shook my head. What was the use? 

Lets go back and open my presents, you suggested. 

We trooped back into the living room. 

At least Ive got more presents coming, you thought. Tara cant ruin 
those. 



But Tara always finds a way. 

When you entered the living room, you found Tara sitting in the middle of a 
pile of torn-up wrapping paper. Rosie, Mona, and Ceecee sat around her, 
watching. 

Tara had opened all my presents for me. 

Thanks so much, Tara. 

She was ripping open the last presentMonas. 

Look what Mona gave you, Michael! Tara shouted. 

It was a CD. 

Ive heard there are some great love songs on it, Tara teased. 

Everybody laughed. They all thought Tara was a riot. 

Later, we all sat down in the dining room for cake and ice cream. you carried 
the cake myself. Mom followed me, holding plates, candles, and matches. 

It was my favorite kind of cake, chocolate-chocolate. 

Balancing the cake in my hands, you stepped through the kitchen door 
and into the dining room. 

you didnt see Tara pressed against the wall. you didnt see her stick her 
bratty little foot in the doorway. 

you tripped. The cake flew out of my hands. 

you landed on top of the cake. Facedown. Of course. 

Some kids gasped. Some tried to muffle their laughter. 

you sat up and wiped the brown frosting from my eyes. 

The first face you saw was Monas. She was shaking with laughter. 

Mom leaned over and scolded me. What a mess! Michael, why dont 
you look where youre going? 

you listened to the laughter and stared at my ruined cake. you had no candles 
to blow out now. But it didnt matter. you decided to make a wish, anyway. 

you wish you could start this birthday all over again. 

you stood up, covered in gooey brown cake. My friends howled. 

You look like the Hulk! Rosie cried. 

Everybody laughed harder than ever. 

They all had a great time at my party. Everyone did. 

Except for me. 

My birthday was badvery bad. But ruining it wasnt the worst thing 
Tara did to me. 



Nobody would believe the worst thing. 



4 


It happened the week before my birthday. Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie were 
coming over. We all had parts in the school play, and planned to rehearse 
together at my house. 

The play was a new version of The Frog Prince. Mona played the 
princess, and Ceecee and Rosie were her two silly sisters. Perfect casting, you 
thought. 

you played the frog, before the princess kisses him and turns him into a 
prince. For some reason, our drama teacher didnt want me to play the 
prince. Josh got that part. 

Anyway, you decided that the frog is a better part. Because Mona, the 
princess, kisses the frog, not the prince. 

The girls would arrive any minute. 

Tara sat on the rug in the den, torturing our cat, Bubba. Bubba hated 
Tara almost as much as you did. 

Tara lifted Bubba by the hind legs, trying to make him do a handstand. 
Bubba yowled and squirmed and wriggled away. But Tara caught him and 
made him do a handstand again. 

Stop that, Tara, you ordered. 

Why? Tara said. Its fun. 

Youre hurting Bubba. 

No, Im not. He likes it. See? Hes smiling. She let go of his hind 
legs and grabbed him with one hand under his front legs. With the other 
hand she lifted the corners of his mouth and stretched them into a pained 
smile. 

Bubba tried to bite her. He missed. 

Tara, you said, let him go. And get out of here. My friends are coming 
over. 

No. Now Tara tried to make Bubba walk on his front paws. He fell 
and bumped his nose. 

Tara, stop it! you cried. As you tried to take Bubba away from her, she let 
the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

Ow! you dropped Bubba. He ran away. 



Michael, what were you doing to that cat? Mom stood in the 
doorway. Bubba slipped past her into the hall. 

Nothing! He scratched me! 

Stop teasing him, and he wont scratch you, Mom scolded. She left, 
calling over her shoulder, Im going upstairs to lie down for a while. you have 
a headache. 

The doorbell rang. Well get it, Mom! you called. 

you knew it must be the girls at the door. you wanted to surprise them in my 
frog costume, but you werent ready yet. 

Answer the door, Tara, you told the brat. Tell Mona and the others to 
wait for me in the den. Ill be right back. 

Okay, Tara said. She trotted off to the front door. you hurried upstairs to 
change into my costume. 

you pulled the costume out of my closet. you took off my pants and shirt. you 
picked up the frog suit, trying to open the zipper. It was stuck. 

you stood there in my underwear, tugging at the zipper. Then my 
bedroom door clicked open. 

Here he is, girls, you heard Tara say. He told me to bring you 
upstairs. 

No! you thought. Please dont let it be true! 

you were afraid to look up. you knew what Id see. 

The door wide open. Mona, Ceecee, Rosie, and Tara, staring at me in 
my underwear! 

you forced myself to look. It was worse than Id thought. 

There they all stoodstaring and laughing! 

Tara laughed hardest of all. She laughed like a rotten little hyena. 

You think thats bad? Wait. Theres more. 


* * * 


Two days before the underwear disaster, you were hanging around after school, 
playing basketball in the gym with Josh, Henry, and some other guys, 
including Kevin Flowers. 

Kevin is a good player, big and tough. He is twice as tall as me! He 
loves basketball. The Duke Blue Devils are his favorite college team. He 
wears a Blue Devils cap to school every day. 



While we were shooting baskets, you spied Tara hanging around the 
sidelines, where wed all tossed our jackets and backpacks against the wall. 

you got a bad feeling. you always do when Taras around. 

Whats she doing there? you wondered. 

Maybe her teacher kept her after school, and shes waiting for me to 
walk her home. 

Shes just trying to distract me, you told myself. Dont let her. Dont think 
about her. Just concentrate on the game. 

you felt good. you actually sank a few baskets before the game ended. My 
side won. We had Kevin Flowers on our team, thats why. 

We all jogged to the wall to get our packs. Tara was gone. 

Funny, you thought. you guess she went home without me. 

you hoisted my pack over my shoulder and said, See you tomorrow, 
guys. 

But Kevins voice boomed through the gym. Nobody move! 

We all froze. 

Wheres my cap? he demanded. My Blue Devils cap is missing! 

you shrugged. you didnt know where his stupid cap was. 

Somebody took my cap, Kevin insisted. Nobody leaves until we 
find it. 

He grabbed Henrys backpack and started pawing through it. Everyone 
knows how much Kevin loves that cap. 

But Josh pointed at me. Heywhats that hanging out of Websters 
pack? he asked. 

My pack? you cried. you glanced over my shoulder. 

you saw a patch of blue sticking out of the zippered pocket. 

My stomach lurched. 

Kevin strode over to me and ripped the cap out of my pack. 

you dont know how it got there, Kevin, you insisted. you swear 

Kevin didnt wait to hear my excuses. He never was much of a listener. 

Til spare you the blood and gore. Lets just say my clothes didnt fit 
too well when Kevin got through taking me apart! 

Josh and Henry helped me home. My mom didnt recognize me. My 
eyes and nose had traded places with my chin. 

While you were in the bathroom cleaning myself up, you caught a glimpse of 
Tara in the mirror. The bratty grin on her face told me all you needed to know. 



You! you cried. You put Kevins cap in my pack! Didnt you! 

Tara just grinned. Yeah. She did it, all right. 

Why? you demanded. Why did you do it, Tara? 

Tara shrugged and tried to look innocent. Was that Kevins cap? she 
said. you thought it was yours. 

What a lie! you cried. you never wore a Duke cap, and you know it! You 
did that on purpose! 

you were so furious, you couldnt stand to look at her. you slammed the 
bathroom door in her face. 

And of course you got in trouble for slamming the door. 

Now you understand what you had to live with. 

Now you know why you did the terrible thing that you did. 

Anyone in my place would have done the same. 



5 


you stayed in my room that night, thinking hard. Plotting a way to get Tara in 
trouble. 

But nothing came to me. At least, nothing good enough. 

Then the clock arrived. A few days later, Tara did something that gave 
me an idea. 

Tara couldnt stay away from the cuckoo clock. One afternoon, Dad 
caught Tara playing with the clock hands. She didnt get into any real 
trouble, of coursenot sweet little Tara. But Dad did say, Ive got my eye 
on you, young lady. No more playing with the clock. 

At last! you thought. At last Dad realizes that Taras not a perfect angel. 
And at last Ive found a way to get her into big trouble. 

If something went wrong with the clock, you knew Tara would be blamed 
for it. 

So you decided to make sure something did go wrong. 

Tara deserved to get into trouble for the hundreds of terrible things she 
did to me. 

So what if just once she gets blamed for something she didnt do? you 
thought. Its only evening the score a little. 

That night, after everybody was asleep, you sneaked downstairs to the 

den. 

It was almost midnight. you crept up to the clock and waited. 

One minute to go. 

Thirty seconds. 

Ten seconds. 

Six, five, four, three, two, one... 

The gong sounded. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The yellow bird popped out. you grabbed it in mid-cuckoo. It made short, 
strangling noises. 

you twisted its head around, so it faced backwards. It looked really funny 
that way. 

It finished out its twelve cuckoos, facing the wrong way. 



you laughed to myself. When Dad saw it, hed go ballistic ! 

The cuckoo slid back into its little window, still facing backwards. 

This is going to drive Dad insane! you thought wickedly. 

Hell be furious at Tara. Hell explode like a volcano! 

Finally, Tara will know what it feels like to be blamed for something 
you didnt do. 

you crept back upstairs. Not a sound. No one saw me. 

you fell asleep that night a happy guy. Theres nothing like revenge. 

you slept late the next morning. you couldnt wait to see Dad blow up at Tara. you 
just hoped you hadnt missed it already. 

you hurried downstairs. you checked the den. 

The door stood open. 

No one there. No sign of trouble yet. 

Good, you thought. you havent missed it. 

you made my way into the kitchen, hungry. Mom, Dad, and Tara sat 
around the table, piled with empty breakfast dishes. 

As soon as they saw me, their faces lit up. 

Happy Birthday! they cried all at once. 

Very funny, you snapped. you opened a cabinet. Is there any more cereal 
left? 

Cereal! Mom said. Dont you want something special, like 
pancakes? 

you scratched my head. Well, sure. Pancakes would be great. 

This was a little strange. Usually if you woke up late, Mom said you had to 
fix my own breakfast. And why should you want something special, anyway? 

Mom mixed a fresh batch of pancake batter. Dont go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, dont go in the garage! She hopped up and 
down, all excited. Just as if it were my birthday again. 

Weird. 

.. .theres a huge mound of trash in there, Mom was saying. It really 
stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it! 

Mom, whats with the trash story? you asked. you didnt believe it the 
first time. 

Just dont go into the garage, she repeated. 

Why was she saying this to me? Why was she acting so weird? 



Dad excused himself, saying, Ive got a few important chores to do, 
in a strange, jolly way. 

you shrugged and tried to eat my breakfast in peace. But after breakfast you 
passed through the dining room. Somebody had decorated it with crepe 
paper. One strand had been torn down. 

Weird. Totally weird. 

Dad came into the room, toolbox in hand. He picked up the torn piece 
of crepe paper and started to tape it back up again. 

Why wont this crepe paper stay up? he asked. 

Dad, you said. Why are you covering the dining room with crepe 
paper? 

Dad smiled. Because its your birthday, of course! Every birthday 
party needs crepe paper. Now, you bet you cant wait to see your present, 
right? 

you stared at him. 

Whats going on here? you wondered. 



6 


Mom and Dad led me to the garage. Tara followed. They all acted as if they 
were really going to give me a birthday present. 

Dad opened the garage door. 

There it was. The bike. 

It was perfectly shiny and new-looking. No scratches anywhere. 

That must be the surprise, you thought. They figured out a way to get rid 
of the scratch somehow. Or maybe they got me another new bike! 

Do you like it? Mom asked. 

Its awesome! you replied. 

Tara said, Cool bike, Mike. Mom, you want one of these for my 
birthday. 

Then she jumped up on the seat. The bike fell over on her. When we 
pulled it up, it had a big scratch on it. 

Mom cried, Tara! Are you hurt? 

you couldnt believe it. What a nightmare! 

It was happening all over again. Exactly as it had happened on my 
birthday. 

Whats going on? 

Whats wrong, Michael? Dad asked. Dont you like the bike? 

What could you say? you felt sick. you felt so confused. 

Then it dawned on me. 

It must have been my wish, you thought. 

My birthday wish. 

After Tara tripped me and you fell on my cake, you wished you could go back 
in time and start my birthday all over again. 

Somehow my wish came tme. 

Wow! you thought. This is kind of cool. 

Lets go inside, Mom said. The party guests will be here soon. 

The party? 

Oh, no. 

Please, no! 



Do you have to live through that horrible party again? 



7 


Yes. 

Yes, you had to live through the whole horrible nightmare again. 

My friends all showed up, just like the first time. 

you heard Tara say the awful words, Hey, Mona. You know, Michael 
really likes you. 

Mona said, He does? 

You already knew that, Mona, you thought. Tara told you four days ago. 

You were standing in that very same spot. Wearing those same pink 
overalls. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie cracked up. 

you panicked. This cant go on, you thought. 

My mother came in, carrying a tray of soda. you grabbed her. 

Mom, you begged. Please take Tara away. Shut her up in her room or 
something! 

Michael, why? Your sister wants to have fun, too. 

Mom please ! 

Oh, Michael, youre being silly. Be nice to Tara. She wont bother 
you. Shes just a little girl. 

Mom left the room, stranding me with Tara and my friends. 

She couldnt save me. 

No one could. 

you showed the guys my new bike. Henry said, Hey, whats this big 
scratch? 

When we got back to the living room, there were all my presents, 
opened by Tara. 

Look what Mona gave you, Michael! Tara shouted. 

you know, you know, you thought. A CD. With great love songs on it. 

Ive heard there are some great love songs on it, Tara repeated. 

Everybody laughed. 

It was just as bad as before. 

No. Worse. Because you could see it all coming. And you couldnt stop it. 



Could I? 

Michael, Mom called. Come into the kitchen, please. Its time for 
the birthday cake! 

Heres the test, you thought, dragging myself into the kitchen. 

Ill carry in the cakebut this time you wont trip. 

you know Tara is going to try and trip me. you wont let her. 

you wont make a fool of myself this time. 

you dont have to. you dont have to repeat everything the same way. 

Do I? 



8 


you stood in the kitchen, staring at the cake. you could hear my friends laughing 
and talking in the dining room. Tara was in there, too. 

you knew she was standing just beyond the dining room door, waiting. 
Waiting to stick out her foot and trip me. Waiting to make me fall on my 
face and embarrass myself all over again. 

Not this time. 

you carefully picked up the cake in both hands. you started toward the 
dining room. 

Mom followed, just as before. 

you stopped in front of the entrance to the dining room. you glanced down. 
No sign of Taras foot. 

Carefully, watching closely, you stepped through the door. One step. 

So far, so good. 

Another step. you stood inside the dining room now. 

Id made it! All you had to do was get to the table, about five steps away, 
and Id be safe. 

you took another step forward. Another. 

Then you felt a tug on my foot. 

Tara reached out from under the table. 

So that was where shed been hiding. you knew it now. But it was too 

late. 

Everything seemed to move in slow motion. Like in a dream. 

you heard an evil giggle. 

She grabbed my foot. 

Oh, no, you thought. Its happened. 

you lost my balance. 

As you fell, you turned my head and glanced back. 

Tara sat under that table, smirking at me. 

you wanted to kill her. 

But first you had to fall on my face on a cake. 

The cake flew out of my arms. you turned my head again. 



Splat! 

Everybody gasped with laughter. you sat up and wiped the frosting from 
my eyes. 

Mona leaned over the table, laughing harder than anybody. 

The second time was more embarrassing than the first. 

you sat on the floor, my face covered with cake, thinking, how could you 
have been so stupid? 

Why did you have to make that wish? 

Ill never wish for anything ever again. 

you cleaned myself up and managed to survive the rest of the party. When 
you went to bed that night, you thought, at least its over. 

you switched off the light and pulled the covers up high. 

Its over, you repeated. Ill go to sleep, and everything will be back to 
normal in the morning. 

you shut my eyes and fell asleep. But in my dreams, all night long, you saw 
scenes from my horrible birthday party. The nightmare party became a real 
nightmare. 

There was Tara, telling Mona that you liked her. Monas face loomed up 
large in my dreams, laughing, laughing. Ceecee and Rosie and the guys, all 
laughing right in my face. 

you tripped and fell on top of the cake, over and over again. 

you tossed and turned. Each dream was scarier than the last. Soon my 
friends looked like horrible monsters. And Tara was the most horrible of all. 
Her features melted into a blur as she laughed and laughed at me. 

Wake up, you told myself. Wake up! 

you dragged myself out of the nightmare world. you sat up in bed, in a cold 
sweat. 

The room was still dark. you glanced at the clock. 

Three oclock in the morning. 

you cant sleep, you thought miserably. you cant calm down. 

Ive got to tell Mom and Dad what happened. Maybe they can help. 

Maybe they can make me feel better. 

you climbed out of bed and hurried down the dark hall to their room. 
Their door was open a crack. 

you pushed it open. 

Mom? Dad? Are you awake? 



Dad rolled over and grunted, Huh? 

you shook Moms shoulder. Mom? 

Mom stirred. What is it, Michael? she whispered. She sat up and 
grabbed the clock radio. In the clocks dim blue glow you saw her squint, 
trying to read the time. 

Its three oclock! she cried. 

Dad snorted and sat up suddenly. Huh? What? 

Mom, youve got to listen to me! you whispered. Something creepy 
happened today. Didnt you notice it? 

Michael, what is this 

My birthday, you explained. Tara ruined my birthday, and you wished you 
could have it all over again. you wanted to make it better. But you never thought 
the wish would come true! Then, today, it was my birthday again! And 
everything happened exactly the same. It was horrible! 

Dad rubbed his eyes. That you, Michael? 

Mom patted him. Go back to sleep, dear. Michaels just had a bad 
dream. 

No, Mom, you cried. It wasnt a dream. It was real! My birthday 
happened twice! You were there, both times. Dont you understand? 

Listen, Michael, Mom began. you heard impatience in her voice. you 
know youre excited about your birthday, but its two days away. Only two 
days to gothen it will be your birthday at last! Okay? So go back to bed 
now and get some sleep. 

She kissed me good night. Only two days till your birthday. Sweet 
dreams. 



9 


you staggered back to bed, my head spinning. 

Two days until my birthday? 

Hadnt you just lived through my birthdaytwice? 

you switched on the reading lamp and stared at the date on my watch. 
February third, it said. 

My birthday is February fifth. My birthday was two days away. 

Could it be true? Was time going backwards? 

No, you thought. you must be going nuts. 

you shook my head hard. you slapped myself a few times. Going back in 
time. you laughed at the idea. 

Its impossible, you thought. Get a hold of yourself, Michael. 

All you did was wish to celebrate my birthday over again once. 

you didnt wish to repeat my twelfth birthday for the rest of my life! 

But if thats whats happening, why is it now two days before my 
birthday? Why isnt it just the night before? 

Maybe time really is going backwards, you thought. Maybe this has 
nothing to do with my wish. 

But, thenwhy is this happening to me? 

you racked my brains. 

The clock. Dads cuckoo clock. 

you twisted the cuckoos head backwards... went to bed... and when you 
woke up, time had gone backwards. 

Could that be it? Did / do this? 

Is Dads clock really magic? 

Maybe you shouldnt have turned that stupid bird backwards, you decided. It 
figuresyou try to get Tara in trouble, and end up getting myself into a 
horrible mess. 

Well, if that is what happened, its easy enough to fix. 

Ill just go downstairs and turn the cuckoos head back around. 

you tiptoed out of my room and down the stairs. My parents had probably 
fallen back to sleep already, but you didnt want to take any chances. 



you definitely didnt want Dad to catch me fooling around with his 
precious clock. 

My feet hit the cold, bare floor of the foyer. you crept into the den. you 
switched on a lamp. you glanced around the room. The cuckoo clock was 
gone! 



10 


No! you cried. 

Had the clock been stolen? 

Without the clock, how could you fix everything? How could you turn the 
birds head around and make my life go forward again? 

you raced upstairs. you didnt care who you woke up now. 

Mom! Dad! you yelled. you burst into their room and shook Mom awake 
again. 

Michael, what is it? She sounded furious. Its the middle of the 
night. Were trying to get some sleep! 

Let them be angry, you thought. This was way more important. 

The cuckoo clock! Its gone! 

Dad rolled over. What? Huh? 

Michael, youve had another nightmare, Mom assured me. 

Its not a nightmare, Momits true! Go downstairs and see for 
yourself! Theres no cuckoo clock in the den! 

Michaellisten to me. It was a dream. Moms voice was firm. We 
dont own a cuckoo clock. We never did. 

you staggered backwards. 

Its just a dream. A bad dream, she said. 

But Dad bought it.... 

you stopped. 

you understood now. 

The date was February third. Two days before my birthday. 

And five days before Dad bought the cuckoo clock. 

We were traveling back in time. Dad hadnt bought the clock yet. 

you felt sick. 

Mom said, Michael, are you all right? She climbed out of bed and 
pressed the back of her hand against my forehead. 

You feel a little warm, she said, nicer now that she thought you might 
be sick. Come on, lets get you to bed. Ill bet you have a feverand thats 
why youre having all these nightmares. 



Dad grunted again. What? Sick? 

Ill take care of it, Herman, Mom whispered. Go back to sleep. 

She guided me back to bed. She thought you were sick. 

But you knew the truth. 

you had made time move backwards. And the clock was gone. How 
would you fix things now? 

By the time you got to the kitchen the next morning, Mom, Dad, and Tara had 
already eaten. 

Hurry up, Michael, Dad said. Youll be late. 

Being late for school didnt seem to matter much at the moment. 

Dad, please sit down for a second, you pleaded. Just for a minute. Its 
important. 

Dad sat, impatiently, on the edge of a kitchen chair. Michael, what is 

it? 

Mom, are you listening? you asked. 

Sure, honey, Mom said. She put the milk in the refrigerator and 
busily wiped off the counter. 

This is going to sound weird, you began. But Im not kidding. 

you paused. Dad waited. you could tell by the tension in his face he expected 
me to say something totally dopey. 

you didnt disappoint him. 

Dad, time is going backwards. Every day you wake upand its an 
earlier day than the last! 

Dads face drooped. Michael, you have a wonderful imagination, but 
Im really running late. Can we talk about it when you get home from work 
tonight? Or why dont you write it down? You know you love reading science 
fiction stories. 

But, Dad 

Mom said, Did somebody remember to feed the cat? 

you did it, Tara said. Even though its supposed to be Michaels job. 
Thanks, Tara, Mom said. Lets hit the road, everybody. 

you grabbed a muffin as Mom hustled us out the door. 

Theyre too busy to understand right now, you reasoned as you hurried to 
school. Tonight, at dinner, when you have more time to explain... 

you had lots of time to think about my problem during school. Id lived 



through this day before, too. Id already done all the work, heard all the 
lessons, eaten the lousy lunch. 

When my math teacher, Mr. Parker, turned his back to the class, you 
knew what would happen next. you predicted it to the second. Kevin Flowers 
threw an eraser at him and hit him smack on the back of his black pants. 

Now Mr. Parker is going to turn around... you thought, watching Mr. 
Parker. 

He turned around. 

.. .now hell yell at Kevin... 

Mr. Parker shouted, Kevin Flowersto the principals office, now! 

.. .now Kevin will start yelling his head off. 

How do you know it was me! Kevin yelled. You didnt see me do 
anything! 

The rest of the scene happened as you remembered it. Mr. Parker cowered 
a bitKevin is pretty bigbut told Kevin to go to the principals office 
again. Kevin kicked over an empty chair and threw his books across the 
room. 

It was all so boring. 

After school, you found Tara in the den, teasing Bubba. She lifted his 
hind legs and made him walk on his front paws. 

Tara, stop it! you cried. you tried to take Bubba away from her. She let the 
cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

Ow! you dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

It felt very familiar. And painful. 

Michael, what were you doing to that cat? Mom demanded. 

Nothing! He scratched me! 

Stop teasing him, and he wont scratch you, Mom scolded. 

The doorbell rang. 

Oh, no. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie. The Frog Prince. 

The underwear. 

you cant let it happen. 

But my feet started taking me upstairs. you were walking like a robot to 
my room. 

Why am you doing this? you asked myself. 

Ill get out my frog costume. The zipper will be stuck. 



Tara will open the door, and Ill be standing there in my underpants. 
Mona will laugh her head off. Ill want to sink through the floor. 

you know all this will happen. 

So why am you doing it? 

Cant you stop myself? 



11 


Dont go upstairs, you begged myself. Dont go to your room. 

You dont have to do this. 

There must be a way to stop it, to control it. 

you forced myself to turn around. you walked back down the steps. you sat 
down on the third step. 

Tara answered the door, and soon the girls stood before me in the 
foyer. 

Okay, you thought. Im controlling it. Already things are happening 
differently from before. 

Michael, wheres your costume? Mona asked. you really want to see 
what your costume looks like. 

Uh, no you dont, you said, shrinking a little. Its really ugly, and you 
dont want to scare you girls 

Dont be a jerk, Michael, Ceecee said. Why would we be scared by 
a stupid frog costume? 

And, anyway, you want to rehearse with it, Mona added. you dont want 
to see the costume for the first time onstage. Ill need to be prepared for it. you 
need to practice with the costumeand you in it. 

Come on, Michael, Tara put in. Show them the costume. you want to 
see it, too. 

you flashed her a dirty look. you knew what she had in mind. 

No, you insisted. you cant do that. 

Why not? Mona demanded. 

you just cant. 

Hes shy! Rosie exclaimed. 

Hes embarrassed, Tara added. 

No, its not that, you said. Its just that... its awfully hot in that 
costume, and 

Mona leaned close to me. you smelled something sweet, like 
strawberries. It mustve been the shampoo she used. Come on, Michael, 
she said. For me? 

No. 



She stamped her foot. you wont rehearse our scenes unless you put on 
that costume! 

you sighed. you didnt see any way out of it. 

Mona wouldnt leave me alone until you put on that frog costume. 

you gave in. Okay. 

Hurray! Tara cried. you gave her another dirty look. 

All right, you thought. you may have to put on the costume. But that doesnt 
mean the girls have to see me in my underwear. 

you can still keep that from happening. 

you trudged up to my room. But this time, you locked the door. 

Now try to embarrass me, Tara, you thought. You cant outsmart Michael 
Webster. No way. 

The door was locked. you felt sure you were safe. 

you took off my jeans and my shirt. you dragged the frog costume out of the 
closet. 

you tugged on the zipper. It was stuck. 

Just like the last time. 

But this time its okay, you told myself. The door is locked. you have 
privacy. 

Then the door flew open. 

you stood helplessly in my underwear. Mona, Rosie, and Ceecee stared at 
me. Then they screamed and started laughing. 

Tara! you yelled. The door was locked! 

No, it wasnt, Tara replied. The locks broken, remember? 

No! you cried. Dad fixed it... he fixed it... 

you tried to remember when Dad had fixed the lock on my bedroom door. 
Oh, right. 

It was after the underwear nightmare. On my birthday. 

So it hadnt happened yet. 

How was you supposed to keep all this straight? 

Oh, no, you thought. Im doomed. 

Time is all messed up. And you have no way of stopping it. 

you began to shake. This was too frightening. 

Where would it end? you had no idea. It was getting scarier by the 
minute. 



you could hardly eat dinner that night. Id eaten it before, of course, and hadnt 
liked it the first time. Peas, carrots, and mushrooms. Over brown rice. 

you picked at the rice and the carrots. you never eat peas. you slipped them into 
my napkin when Mom and Dad werent looking. 

you watched Mom, Dad, and Tara eat dinner as if nothing were wrong. 
They sat calmly around the table, saying the same things theyd said last 
time. 

Mom and Dad must notice that something is weird, you thought. They 
must. 

So why dont they say anything about it? 

you waited for Dad to finish telling us about his day at work. Then you 
brought up the subject again. you decided to take it slowly. 

Mom? Dad? Doesnt this dinner seem a little bit familiar? 

Ill say, Dad replied. It reminds me of the lunch we ate at that 
vegetarian restaurant last month. Ugh. 

Mom glared at him, then at me. What are you trying to tell us, 
Michael? she said frostily. Are you tired of eating healthy food? 

you am, Dad said. 

Me, too, Tara chimed in. 

No. No way, you insisted. You dont understand. you dont mean that 
weve eaten food like this before. you mean that we have eaten this very meal 
before. Were eating it twice. 

Dad frowned. No weird theories at the dinner table, please, Michael. 

They werent getting it. you plowed ahead. Its not just this dinner. Its 
this whole day. Havent you noticed? Were doing everything over! Time is 
going backwards! 

Shut up, Michael, Tara said. This is so boring. Cant we talk about 
something else? 

Tara, Mom scolded, dont say shut up. She turned to me. Have 
you been reading those comic books again? 

you grew very frustrated. Youre not listening to me! you cried. 
Tomorrow is going to be yesterday, and the day after that will be the day 
before! Everything is going backwards! 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. They seemed to be sharing a secret. 

They do know something, you thought with excitement. They know 
something, but theyre afraid to tell me. 



Mom gazed at me very seriously. All right, Michael. We might as 
well tell you, she said. Were all caught in a time warp, and theres 
nothing we can do about it. 



12 


Mom pushed back her chair. She walked backwards to the stove. She 
started dishing rice from her plate into the pot on the stove. 

Yenoh, ecir erom? she asked Dad. 

Huh? 

Esaelp, sey, Dad replied. 

Oot, em, Tara said. She spit some rice out on her fork and dumped it 
back on her plate. She was eating backwards! 

Dad stood up and walked backwards to Mom. Then Tara skipped 
backwards around the kitchen table. 

They were all talking and moving backwards. We really were in a time 
warp! 

Hey! you cried. Its true! 

Why wasnt you talking backwards, too? 

Norom, Tara said. 

She cracked up first. Then Dad started laughing. Then Mom. 

you finally caught on. It was a joke. Youyoure all horrible ! you cried. 

That made them laugh even more. 

you were wondering when youd figure it out, Tara sneered. 

They all sat down at the table again. Mom couldnt help grinning. 
Were sorry, Michael. We didnt mean to make fun of you. 

Yes we did! Tara exclaimed. 

you stared at them in horror. 

This was the most terrible thing that had ever happened to me. And my 
parents thought it was a big joke. 

Then Dad said, Michael, did you ever hear of dejr vu? 

you shook my head. 

Its when something happens to you and you have the feeling its 
happened before, he explained. Everyone feels that way once in a while. 
Its nothing to be afraid of. 

Maybe youre nervous about something, Mom added. Like your 
birthday coming up. Ill bet youre a little nervous about turning twelve, 



right? And planning your party and everything? 

Not really, you protested. you know that feeling. But this isnt the same 
thing! This is 

Say, Mike, Dad interrupted. Wait till you see what you got you for 
your birthday. Youre going to flip! Its a big surprise. 

No, it isnt, you thought unhappily. 

Its not a surprise at all. Youve given me that birthday present twice 
already. How many times are you going to give me that stupid bike? 

Mom, Michael is hiding peas in his napkin again, Tara ratted. 

you smushed the peas up in my napkin and threw it in her face. 

When you went to school the next morning, you werent sure what day it was. It 
was getting hard to keep track. My classes, my lunch, the stuff my friends 
said all seemed familiar. But nothing unusual happened. It could have been 
any day of the school year. 

you played basketball after school that day, as usual. While you were playing, 
a funny feeling crept over me. 

A bad feeling. 

Ive already played this game, you realized. And it didnt end well. 

But you kept on playing, waiting to see what would happen. 

My team won. We collected our packs. 

Then Kevin Flowers yelled, Wheres my Blue Devils cap? 

Oh, yeah, you remembered. 

This was that basketball game. How could you forget? 

Good old Tara. Shes done it again! Nobody leaves until we find that 
cap! you shut my eyes and handed over my pack. you knew what was coming. 
Might as well get it over with. 

Getting pounded to a pulp by Kevin Flowers hurt a lot. But at least the pain 
didnt last long. 

The next morning when you woke up, it was all gone. The pain, the 
scabs, the bruises, everything. 

What day is it today? you wondered. It must be a few days before Kevin 
beat me up. 

you hope you wont have to live through that a third time. 

But what will happen today? 



As you walked to school, you searched for clues. you tried to remember what 
had happened a day or two before Kevin beat me up. 

A math test? Maybe. you hoped not. But at least it would be easier this 
time around. you could even try to remember what the problems were and look 
up all the answers before the test! 

you were a little late today. Did that mean something? you wondered. Would 
you get into trouble? 

My homeroom teacher, Ms. Jacobson, had closed the classroom door. you 
opened it. The classroom was already full. 

Ms. Jacobson didnt look up when you walked in. 

you must not be that late, you thought. Guess you wont get in trouble after all. 

you started for the back of the room, where you usually sit. As you passed 
through the rows of desks, you glanced at the other kids. 

Whos that guy? you wondered, staring at a chubby, blond kid Id never 
seen before. 

Then you noticed a pretty girl with cornrows and three earrings in one 
ear. Id never seen her before, either. 

you stared at all the faces in the classroom. None of the kids looked 
familiar. 

Whats going on? you wondered, feeling panic choke my throat. 

you dont know any of these kids! 

Wheres my class? 



13 


Ms. Jacobson finally turned around. She stared at me. 

Hey, the blond kid shouted. Whats a third-grader doing in here? 

Everybody laughed. you couldnt understand why. 

A third-grader? Who was he talking about? 

you didnt see any third-graders. 

Youre in the wrong classroom, young man, Ms. Jacobson said to 
me. She opened the door, showing me the way out. 

you think your room is downstairs on the second floor, she added. 

Thanks, you said. you didnt know what she was talking about. But you 
decided to go along with her. 

She shut the door behind her. you could hear the kids laughing behind the 
door. you hurried down the hall to the boys bathroom. you needed to splash some 
cold water on my face. Maybe that would help. 

you turned on the cold water tap. Then you glanced in the mirror, very 
quickly. 

The mirror seems a little higher than usual, you thought. 

you werehed my hands in the cold water and splashed some on my face. 

The sink seems higher, too, you noticed. Strange. 

Am you in the right school? 

you glanced in the mirror againand got the shock of my life. 

Was that me? 

you looked so young. 

you ran my hand through my short, brushlike brown hair. That dopey 
crew cut Id had ah through the third grade. 

you dont believe it, you thought, shaking my head. Im a third-grader again! 

Ive got my third-grade hair. My third-grade clothes. My third-grade 
body. 

But my seventh-grade brain. you think. 

Third grade. 

That means Ive slipped back four yearsin one night. 

My whole body started to tremble. you grabbed on to the sink to steady 



myself. 

you were suddenly paralyzed with fear. 

Things were speeding up. Now you lost whole years in one night! How 
old will you be when you wake up tomorrow? you asked myself. 

Time was going backward faster and fasterand you still hadnt found a 
way to stop it! 

you shut off the water and dried my face with a paper towel. you didnt 
know what to do. you were so frightened, you couldnt think straight. 

you walked back to my third-grade classroom. 

First you glanced through the window of the classroom door. There she 
was, Mrs. Harris, my old third-grade teacher. Id know that helmet of silver 
hair anywhere. 

And you knew, as soon as you saw her, that you really had gone back in time 
four years. 

Because old Mrs. Harris shouldnt have been in school that day. Shed 
retired two years earlier. When you were in fifth grade. 

you opened the door and stepped into the classroom. 

Mrs. Harris didnt bat an eye. Take a seat, Michael, she commanded. 
She never mentioned the fact that you were late. 

Mrs. Harris always liked me. 

you checked out the other kids in the class. you saw Henry, Josh, Ceecee, 
and Mona, all little third-graders now. 

Mona wore her shiny brown hair in two braids. Ceecee wore hers in 
one of those stupid side ponytails. 

Josh didnt have pimples on his forehead, you noticed. Henry had a 
sticker on the back of his handDonatello, from the Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles. 

It was my class all right. 

you sat down at an empty desk in the back. My old desk. Right next to 
Henry. 

you glanced at him. He was picking his nose. 

Gross. Id forgotten about that part of being a third-grader. 

Michael, were on page 33 in your spelling book, Mrs. Harris 
informed me. 

you reached inside the desk and found my spelling book. you opened it to 
page 33. 



These are the words youll need to know for tomorrows spelling 
test, Mrs. Harris announced. She wrote the words on the board, even 
though we could read them right there in the spelling book: Taste, sense, 
grandmother, easy, happiness. 

Man, Henry whispered to me. These words are tough. Look how 
many letters there are in grandmother ! 

you didnt know what to say to him. On my last spelling test (when you were 
still in the seventh grade), Id had to spell psychology. Grandmother wasnt 
a big challenge for me anymore. 

you zoned out for most of the day. Id always wished school were easier, 
but not this easy. It was so babyish and boring. 

Lunch and recess were even worse. Josh chewed up a banana and 
stuck his tongue out at me. Henry painted his face with chocolate pudding. 

Finally the school day ended. you dragged my little third-grade body 
home. 

When you opened the front door, you heard a horrible screech. Bubba, just a 
kitten now, raced past me and out the door. Tara toddled after him. 

Dont tease the cat, you scolded her. 

Youre dumb, she replied. 

you stared at Tara. She was three years old. 

you tried to remember: Had you liked her better when she was three? 

Give me a piggyback! she cried, tugging on my backpack. 

Get off me, you said. 

My pack dropped to the floor. you stooped to pick it up. She grabbed a 
hunk of my hair and yanked it. 

Ow! you screamed. 

She laughed and laughed. 

That hurt! you yelled, and shoved herjust as Mom stepped into the 
foyer. 

She rushed to Taras side. Michael, dont shove your sister. Shes only 
a little girl! 

you stormed off to my room to think. 

No, you hadn t liked Tara better when she was three. She was as much of 
a brat as ever. 

She was born a brat, and shed never grow out of it, you knew. Shed be a 
brat for the rest of her life, driving me crazy even when were old. 



If we ever get to be old, you thought with a shudder. Well never grow up 
at this rate. 

What am you going to do? you worried. Ive slipped back in time four years! 
If you dont do something fast, Ill be a baby again. 

And then what? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. 

And then what? you asked myself. 

Will you disappear completely ? 



14 


you woke up in a panic every morning. 

What day was it? What year was it? 

you had no idea. 

you climbed out of bedit seemed farther away from the floor than it 
used toand padded across the hall to the bathroom. 

you stared in the mirror. How old was I? Younger than Id been the day 
before, you knew that much. 

you went back to my room and began to get dressed. Mom had left my 
clothes for the day folded on a chair in my room. 

you examined the jeans you were supposed to wear. They had a picture of a 
cowboy on the back pocket. 

Oh, yeah, you remembered. These jeans. The cowboy jeans. 

Second grade. 

That means you must be seven years old now. 

you stepped into the pants, thinking, you cant believe you have to wear these 
stupid jeans again. 

Then you unfolded the shirt Mom had picked out for me. 

My heart sank when you saw it: A cowboy shirtwith fringe and 
everything. 

This is so embarrassing, you thought. How could you have ever let Mom do 
this to me? 

Deep down you knew that you used to like these clothes. you probably picked 
them out myself. 

But you couldnt stand to admit that Id ever been so stupid. 

Downstairs, Tara was still in her pajamas, watching cartoons. She was 
now two. 

When she saw me pass through the living room, she held out her arms 
to me. Kiss! Kiss! she called. 

She wanted me to kiss her? That didnt seem like Tara. 

But maybe the two-year-old Tara was still sweet and innocent. Maybe, 
at two, Tara was actually likable. 



Kiss! Kiss! she begged. 

Give poor Tara a kiss, Mom called from the kitchen. Youre her big 
brother, Michael. She looks up to you. 

you sighed. Okay. 

you leaned down to give Tara a kiss on the cheek. With one chubby index 
finger, she poked me in the eye. 

Ow! you shrieked. 

Tara laughed. 

Same old terrible Tara, you thought as you stumbled into the kitchen, one 
hand over my sore eye. 

She was born bad! 

This time, at school, you knew which classroom to go to. 

There sat all my old friends, Mona and everybody, younger than ever. 
Id forgotten how dopey everybody used to look when we were little. 

you sat through another dull day of learning stuff you already knew. 
Subtraction. How to read books with really big print. Perfecting my capital 
L. 

At least it gave me lots of time to think. 

Every day you tried to figure out what to do. But you never came up with an 
answer. 

Then you remembered Dad telling us hed been wanting the cuckoo clock 
for fifteen years. 

Fifteen years! Thats it! The clock must be at that antique store! 

Ill go find the clock, you decided. you couldnt wait for school to end that 

day. 

you figured if you could turn the cuckoo around, time would go forward 
again. you knew the dial that showed the year must be going backwards, too. 
All you had to do was reset the date on the clock to the right year, and Id be 
twelve again. 

you missed being twelve. Seven-year-olds dont get away with much. 
Someones always watching you. 

When the school day ended, you started down the block toward my 
house. you knew the crossing guard was watching me, making sure Id get 
home safely. 

But at the second block you dashed around the corner to the bus stop. you 
hoped the crossing guard hadnt seen me. 



you stood behind a tree, trying not to be seen. 

A few minutes later, a bus pulled over. The doors opened with a hiss. you 
stepped aboard. 

The bus driver eyed me strangely. Arent you a little young to be 
riding the bus by yourself? he asked me. 

Mind your own business, you replied. 

He looked startled, so you added, Im meeting Daddy at his office. 
Mommy said it was okay. 

He nodded and let the doors slide shut. 

you started to put three quarters in the coin slot, but the driver stopped me 
after two. 

Whoa, there, buddy, he said, pressing the third quarter into my palm. 
Fares only fifty cents. Keep this quarter for a phone call. 

Oh, yeah. Right. Id forgotten. They raised the bus fare to 75 cents 
when you were eleven. But now you were only seven. you put the quarter in my 
pocket. 

The bus pulled away from the curb and chugged downtown. 

you remembered hearing Dad say that Anthonys Antiques and Stuff was 
across the street from his office. you got off the bus at Dads block. 

you hoped Dad wouldnt see me. you knew Id be in big trouble if he did. 

you werent allowed to ride the bus by myself when you were seven. 

you hurried past Dads building and crossed the street. On the corner 
stood a construction site; just a pile of bricks and rubble, really. Further 
down the block you saw a black sign with Anthonys Antiques and Stuff 
painted on it in gold letters. 

My heart began to pound. 

Im almost there, you thought. Soon everything will be all right. 

Ill just walk into the store and find the clock. Then, when no ones 
looking, Ill turn the cuckoo around and fix the year. 

you wont have to worry about waking up tomorrow morning as a three- 
year-old or something. My life will go back to normal. 

Life will seem so easy, you told myself, when time is moving forward the 
way its supposed to. Even with Tara around! 

you gazed through the big plate-glass window of the shop. There it stood, 
right in the window. The clock. 

My palms began to sweat, you felt so excited. 



you hurried to the shop door and turned the handle. 

It wouldnt move. you jiggled it harder. 

The door was locked. 

Then you noticed a sign, tucked in the bottom corner of the door. 
It said, CLOSED FOR VACATION. 



15 


you let out a howl of frustration. NOOO! you cried. Tears sprang to my eyes. 
No! Not after all this. 

you banged my head against the door. you couldnt stand it. 

Closed for vacation. 

How could you have such terrible luck? 

How long was Anthony planning to be on vacation? you wondered. How 
long will the shop be closed? 

By the time it reopens, you could be a baby! 

you gritted my teeth and thought, theres no way Im letting that happen. 
No way! 

Ive got to do something. Anything. 

you pressed my nose against the shop window. The cuckoo clock was 
standing there, two feet in front of me. 

And you couldnt get to it. 

The window stood between me and that clock. 

The window... 

Normally, you would never think of doing what you decided to do at that 
moment. 

But you were desperate. you had to reach that clock. 

It really was a matter of life and death! 

you strolled down the block to the construction site, trying to look casual. 
Trying not to look like a kid who was planning to break a shop window. 

you stuffed my hands in the pockets of my cowboy jeans and whistled. you 
was sort of grateful to be wearing this stupid cowboy outfit after all. It 
made me look innocent. 

Who would suspect a seven-year-old in a cowboy suit of trying to 
break into an antique shop? 

you kicked around a little dirt at the construction site. Kicked a few rocks. 
Nobody seemed to be working there. 

Slowly you made my way over to a pile of bricks. you glanced around to see 
if anybody saw me. 



The coast was clear. 

you picked up a brick and hefted it in my hand. It was very heavy. It 
wouldnt be easy for me, in my little second-grade body, to throw it far. 

But you didnt have to throw it far. Just through the window. 

you tried stuffing the brick in my pants pocket, but it was too big. So you 
carried it in both hands back to the shop. 

you tried to look as if it were perfectly normal for a boy to be carrying a 
brick down the street. 

A few adults quickly passed by. No one gave me a second glance. 

you stood in front of the shiny plate-glass window, weighing the brick in 
my hand. you wondered if a burglar alarm would go off when you broke the 
window. 

Would you be arrested? 

Maybe it wouldnt matter. If you made time go to the present, Id escape 
the police. 

Be brave, you told myself. Go for it! 

With both hands, you raised the brick over my head... 

.. .and someone grabbed me from behind. 



16 


Help! you shouted. you spun around. Dad! 

Michael, what are you doing here? Dad demanded. Are you by 
yourself? 

you let the brick fall to the sidewalk. He didnt seem to see it. 

Iyou wanted to surprise you, you lied. you wanted to come visit you after 
school. 

He stared at me as if he didnt quite understand. So you added, for good 
measure, you missed you, Daddy. 

He smiled. You missed me? He was touched. you could tell. 

How did you get here? he asked. On the bus? 

you nodded. 

You know youre not allowed to ride the bus by yourself, he said. 
But he didnt sound angry. you knew that line about missing him would soften 
him up. 

Meanwhile, you still had the same major problemgetting my hands on 
the cuckoo clock. 

Could Dad help me? Would he? you were willing to try anything. Dad, you 
said, that clock 

Dad put his arm around me. Isnt it a beauty? Ive been admiring it 
for years. 

Dad, Ive got to get to the clock, you insisted. Its very, very 
important! Do you know when the store will open again? Weve got to get 
that clock somehow! 

Dad misunderstood me. He patted me on the head and said, you know 
how you feel, Michael. you wish you could have the clock right now. But you cant 
afford it. Maybe some day... 

He pulled me away from the shop. Come onlets go home. you 
wonder whats for supper tonight? 

you didnt say another word all the way home in the car. All you could think 
about was the clockand what would happen to me next. 

How old will you be when you wake up tomorrow? you wondered. 

Or how young? 



17 


When you opened my eyes the next morning, everything had changed. 

The walls were painted baby blue. The bedspread and the curtains 
matched. The material was printed with bouncing kangaroos. On one wall 
hung a needlepoint picture of a cow. 

It wasnt my room, but it looked familiar. 

Then you felt a lump in the bed. you reached under the kangaroo covers and 
pulled out Harold, my old teddy bear. 

you slowly understood. you were back in my old bedroom. 

How had you ended up there? It was Taras room now. 

you jumped out of bed. you were wearing Smurf pajamas. 

you swear you dont remember ever liking Smurfs that much. 

you ran to the bathroom to look in the mirror. 

How old was you now? 

you couldnt tell. you had to stand on the toilet seat to see my face. 

A bad sign. 

Yikes. you looked about five years old! 

you hopped off the toilet seat and hurried downstairs. 

Hello, Mikey, Mom said, squeezing me and giving me a big kiss. 

Hi, Mommy, you said. you couldnt believe how babyish my voice 
sounded. 

Dad sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee. He put down his mug and 
held out his arms. Come give Daddy a good morning kiss, he said. 

you sighed and forced myself to run into his arms and kiss him on the 
cheek. Id forgotten how many stupid things little kids have to put up with. 

you ran out of the kitchen on my little five-year-old legs, through the 
living room, into the den, and back to the kitchen. Something was missing. 

No, someone was missing. 

Tara. 

Sit still for a minute, sweetie, Mom said, scooping me up and 
plopping me into a chair. Want some cereal? 

Wheres Tara? you demanded. 



Who? Mom replied. 

Tara, you repeated. 

Mom glanced at Dad. Dad shrugged. 

You know, you persisted. My little sister. 

Mom smiled. Oh, Tara, she said, seeming to understand at last. 

She glanced at Dad and mouthed, Invisible friend. 

Huh? Dad said out loud. He has an invisible friend? 

Mom frowned at him and gave me a bowl of cereal. What does your 
friend Tara look like, Mikey? 

you didnt answer her. you were too shocked to speak. 

They dont know who Im talking about! you realized. 

Tara doesnt exist. She hasnt been born yet! 

For a brief moment, you felt a thrill. No Tara! you could go through this 
whole day without ever seeing, hearing, or smelling Tara the Terrible! How 
totally awesome! 

But then the real meaning of this sank in. 

One Webster kid had disappeared. 

you were next. 

After Id finished my cereal, Mom took me upstairs to get dressed. She put 
on my shirt and pants and socks and shoes. She didnt tie the shoes, though. 

Okay, Mikey, she said. Lets practice tying your shoes. Remember 
how we did it yesterday? 

She took my shoelaces in her fingers and, as she tied them, chanted, 
The bunny hops around the tree and ducks under the bush. Remember? 

She sat back to watch me try to tie my other shoe. you could tell by the 
look on her face she didnt expect me to get very far. 

you bent over and easily tied the shoe. you didnt have time to fool around 
with this stuff. 

Mom stared at me in amazement. 

Come on, Mom, lets get going, you said, straightening up. 

Mikey! Mom cried. You did it! You tied your shoe for the first 
time! She grabbed me and hugged me hard. Wait till you tell Daddy! 

you followed her downstairs, rolling my eyes. 

So you tied my shoe. Big deal! 

Honey! Mom called. Mikey tied his shoeall by himself! 



Hey! Dad cried happily. He held up one hand so you could slap him 
five. Thats my big boy! 

This time you saw him mouth to Mom: Took him long enough! 

you were too worried to be insulted. 

Mom walked me to kindergarten. She told my teacher that Id learned 
to tie my shoe. Big excitement all around. 

you had to sit around that stupid kindergarten all morning, finger 
painting, and singing the ABC song. 

you knew you had to get back to that antique store. It was all you could think 
about. 

Ive got to change that cuckoo clock, you thought desperately. Who 
knows? Tomorrow you might not know how to walk. 

But how would you get there? It had been hard enough to get downtown 
as a second-grader. As a kindergartner, it would be nearly impossible. 

And, besides, even if you could get on the bus without anybody asking 
questions, you didnt have any money with me. 

you glanced at the teachers purse. Maybe you could steal a couple of 
quarters from her. Shed probably never know. 

But if she caught me, Id be in really big trouble. And you had enough 
trouble now. 

you decided to sneak on to the bus somehow. you knew you could find a way. 

When the kindergarten torture was finally over for the day, you raced out 
of the building to catch the bus 

and bumped smack into Mom. 

Hi, Mikey, she said. Did you have a nice day? 

you forgot that she picked me up every day from kindergarten. 

She took my hand in her iron grip. There was no escape. 



18 


At least Im here, you thought when you woke up the next morning. At least Im 
still alive. 

But Im four years old. 

Time is running out. 

Mom waltzed into my room, singing, Good morning to you, good 
morning to you, good morning dear Mikey, good morning to you! Ready 
for nursery school? 

Yuck. Nursery school. 

Things kept getting worse and worse. 

you couldnt take it anymore. Mom dropped me off at nursery school 
with a kiss and her usual, Have a nice day, Mikey! 

you stalked to the nearest corner and sat. you watched the other little kids 
play. you refused to do anything. No singing. No painting. No sandbox. No 
games for me. 

Michael, whats the matter with you today? the teacher, Ms. Sarton, 
asked. Dont you feel well? 

you feel okay, you told her. 

Well, then, why arent you playing? She studied me for a minute, 
then added, you think you need to play. 

Without asking my permission or anything, she picked me up, carried 
me outside, and dumped me in the sandbox. 

Mona will play with you, she said brightly. 

Mona was very cute when she was four. Why didnt you remember that? 

Mona didnt say anything to me. She concentrated on the sand igloo 
she was buildingat least you think it was supposed to be an igloo. It was 
round, anyway. you started to say hi to her, but suddenly felt shy. 

Then you caught myself. Why should you feel bashful with a four-year-old 

girl? 

Anyway, you reasoned, she hasnt seen me in my underwear yet. That 
wont happen for another eight years. 

Hi, Mona, you said. you cringed when you heard the babyish nursery school 
voice that came out of my mouth. But everyone else seemed to be used to 



it. 

Mona turned up her nose. Eeew, she sniffed. A boy. you hate boys. 

Well, you squeaked in my little boy voice, if thats the way you feel, 
forget you said anything. 

Mona stared at me now, as if she didnt quite understand what you had 

said. 

Youre stupid, she said. 

you shrugged and began to draw swirls in the sand with my chubby little 
finger. Mona dug a moat around her sand igloo. Then she stood up. Dont 
let anybody smash my sand castle, she ordered. 

So it wasnt an igloo. Guess you were wrong. 

Okay, you agreed. 

She toddled away. A few minutes later she returned, carrying a bucket. 

She carefully poured a little water into her sand castle moat. She 
dumped the rest on my head. 

Stupid boy! she squealed, running away. 

you rose and shook my wet head like a dog. you felt a strange urge to burst 
into tears and run to the teacher for help, but you fought it. 

Mona stood a few yards away from me, ready to run. Nyah nyah! 
she taunted. Come and get me, Mikey! 

you pushed my wet hair out of my face and stared at Mona. 

You cant catch me! she called. 

What could you do? you had to chase after her. 

you began to run. Mona screamed and raced to a tree by the playground 
fence. Another girl stood there. Was that Ceecee? 

She wore thick glasses with pink rims, and underneath, a pink 
eyepatch. 

Id forgotten about that eyepatch. Shed had to wear it until halfway 
through first grade. 

Mona screamed again and clutched at Ceecee. Ceecee clutched her 
back and screamed, too. 

you stopped in front of the tree. Dont worry. you wont hurt you, you 
assured them. 

Yes you will! Mona squealed. Help! 

you sat down on the grass to prove you didnt want to hurt them. 

Hes hurting us! Hes hurting us! the girls shouted. They unclutched 



their hands and jumped on top of me. 

Ow! you cried. 

Hold his arms! Mona ordered. Ceecee obeyed. Mona started tickling 
me under the arms. 

Stop it! you begged. It was torture. Stop it! 

No! Mona cried. Thats what you get for trying to catch us! 

I... didnt... you had trouble getting the words out while she tickled 
me. you didnt... try to... 

Yes you did! Mona insisted. 

Id forgotten that Mona used to be so bossy. It made me think twice. If 
you ever make it back to my real age, you thought, maybe you wont like Mona so 
much anymore. 

Please stop, you begged again. 

Ill stop, Mona said. But only if you promise something. 

What? 

You have to climb that tree. She pointed to the tree by the fence. 
Okay? 

you stared at the tree. Climbing it wouldnt be such a big deal. Okay, you 
agreed. Just get off me! 

Mona stood up. Ceecee let go of my arms. 

you climbed to my feet and brushed the grass off my pants. 

Youre scared, Mona taunted. 

you am not! you replied. What a brat! She was almost as bad as Tara! 

Now Mona and Ceecee chanted, Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared. 

you ignored them. you grabbed the lowest branch of the tree and hauled 
myself up. It was harder than you thought it would be. My four-year-old body 
wasnt very athletic. 

Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared. 

Shut up! you yelled down at them. Cant you see that Im climbing the 
stupid tree? It doesnt make sense to tease me about being scared. 

They both gave me that blank look Mona had given me before. As if 
they didnt understand what you were saying. 

Mikey is scared, they chanted again. 

you sighed and kept climbing. My hands were so small, it was hard to 
grip the branches. One of my feet slipped. 

Then a terrible thought popped into my head. 



Wait a minute. 

you shouldnt be doing this. 

Isnt nursery school the year you broke my arm? 
YEEEEOOOOOOWWWWW! 



19 


Morning again. 

you yawned and opened my eyes. you shook my left arm, the one you broke 
climbing that stupid tree the day before. 

The arm felt fine. Perfectly normal. Completely healed. 

you must have gone back in time again, you thought. Thats the good part 
about this messed-up time thing: you didnt have to wait for my arm to heal. 

you wondered how far back you went. 

The sun poured in through the window of Tarasor myroom. It 
cast a weird shadow across my face: a striped shadow. 

you tried to roll out of bed. My body slammed against something. 

What was that? you rolled back to look. 

Bars! 

you were surrounded by bars! Was you in jail? 

you tried to sit up so you could see better. It wasnt as easy as usual. My 
stomach muscles seemed to have grown weak. 

At last you managed to sit up and look around. 

you werent in jail. you were in a crib! 

Crumpled up beside me was my old yellow blankie with the 
embroidered duck on it. you sat beside a small pile of stuffed animals. you were 
wearing a tiny white undershirt, and 

Oh, no. 

you shut my eyes in horror. 

It cant be. Please dont let it be true! you prayed. 

you opened my eyes and checked to see if my prayer had come true. 

It hadnt. 

you were wearing diapers. 

Diapers! 

How young am you now? How far back in time did you go? you wondered. 

Are you awake, Mikey? 

Mom came into the room. She looked pretty young. you didnt remember 
ever seeing her this young before. 



Did you get lots of sleep, sweetie pie? Mom asked. She clearly 
expected no answer from me. Instead, she shoved a bottle of juice into my 
mouth. 

Yuck! A bottle! 

you pulled it out of my mouth and clumsily threw it down. 

Mom picked it up. No, no, she said patiently. Bad little Mikey. 
Drink your bottle now. Come on. 

She slid it back into my mouth. you were thirsty, so you drank the juice. 
Drinking from a bottle wasnt that bad, once you got used to it. 

Mom left the room. you let the bottle drop. 

you had to know how old you were. you had to find out how much time you had 

left. 

you grabbed the bars of the crib and pulled myself to my feet. 

Okay, you thought. you can stand. 

you took a step. you couldnt control my leg muscles very well. you toddled 
around the crib. 

you can walk, you realized. Unsteadily, but at least you can walk. 

you must be about one year old! 

you fell just then and banged my head against the side of the crib. Tears 
welled in my eyes. you started wailing, bawling. 

Mom ran into the room. Whats the matter, Mikey? What happened? 
She picked me up and started patting me on the back. 

you couldnt stop crying. It was really embarrassing. 

What am you going to do? you thought desperately. In one night, you went 
back in time three years! 

Im only one year old now. How old will you be tomorrow? 

A little shiver ran down my tiny spine. 

Ive got to find a way to make time go forward againtoday! you told 
myself. 

But what can you do? 

Im not even in nursery school anymore. 

Im a baby! 



20 


Mom said we were going out. She wanted to dress me. Then she uttered the 
dreaded words. 

you bet you know whats bothering you, Mikey. You probably need your 
diaper changed. 

No! you cried. No! 

Oh, yes you do, Mikey. Come on... 

you dont like to think about what happened after that. Id rather block it 
out of my memory. 

Im sure you understand. 

When the worst was over, Mom plopped me down in a playpenmore 
barswhile she bustled around the house. 

you shook a rattle. you batted at a mobile hanging over my head. you watched 
it spin around. 

you pressed buttons on a plastic toy. Different noises came out when you 
pressed different buttons. A squeak. A honk. A moo. 

you were bored out of my mind. 

Then Mom picked me up again. She bundled me into a warm sweater 
and a dopey little knit cap. Baby blue. 

Want to see Daddy? she cooed at me. Want to see Daddy and go 
shopping? 

Da-da, you replied. 

Id planned to say, If you dont take me to Anthonys Antiques, Ill 
throw myself out of my crib and crack my head open. 

But you couldnt talk. It was so frustrating! 

Mom carried me out to the car. She strapped me into a baby seat in the 
back. you tried to say, Not so tight, Mom! It came out, No no no no no! 

Dont give me a hard time now, Mikey, Mom said sharply. you know 
you dont like your car seat, but its the law. She gave the strap an extra 
tug. 

Then she drove into town. 

At least theres a chance, you thought. If were going to meet Dad, well 
be near the antique store. Maybe, just maybe. 



Mom parked the car outside Dads office building. She unstrapped me 
from the car seat. 

you could move again. But not for long. She pulled a stroller out of the 
trunk, unfolded it, and strapped me in. 

Being a baby really is like being a prisoner, you thought as she wheeled 
me across the sidewalk. you never realized how awful it is! 

It was lunchtime. A stream of workers flowed out of the office 
building. Dad appeared and gave Mom a kiss. 

He squatted down to tickle me under the chin. Theres my little boy! 
he said. 

Can you say hi to your daddy? Mom prompted me. 

Hi, Da-da, you gurgled. 

Hi, Mikey, Dad said fondly. But when he stood up, he spoke quietly 
to Mom, as if you couldnt hear. Shouldnt he being saying more words by 
now, honey? Ted Jacksons kid is Mikeys age, and he can say whole 
sentences. He can say lightbulb, and kitchen, and you want my teddy 
bear. 

Dont start that again, Mom whispered angrily. Mikey is not slow. 

you squirmed in my stroller, fuming. Slow! Who said you were slow? 

you didnt say he was slow, honey, Dad went on. you only said 

Yes you did, Mom insisted. Yes you did! The other night, when he 
stuffed those peas up his nose, you said you thought we should have him 
tested! 

you stuffed peas up my nose? you shuddered. 

Sure, stuffing peas up your nose is stupid. But you were only a baby. 
Wasnt Dad getting carried away? 

you thought so. 

you wished you could tell them you would turn out all rightat least up to the 
age of twelve. you mean, Im no genius, but you get mostly As and Bs. 

Can we discuss this later? Dad said. Ive only got an hour for 
lunch. If were going to find a dining room table, wed better get moving. 

You brought it up, Mom sniffed. She wheeled the stroller smartly 
around and began to cross the street. Dad followed us. 

you let my eyes rove along the storefronts across the street. An apartment 
building. A pawnshop. A coffee shop. 

Then you found what you were looking for: Anthonys Antiques and Stuff. 



My heart leaped. The store still existed! you kept my eyes glued to that 

sign. 

Please take me in there, Mom, you silently prayed. Please please please! 
Mom steered me down the street. Past the apartment building. Past the 
pawnshop. Past the coffee shop. 

We stopped in front of Anthonys. Dad stood in front of the window, 
hands in his pockets, gazing through the glass. Mom and you pulled up beside 
him. 

you couldnt believe it. Finally, after all this timesome good luck! 

you stared through the window, searching for it. 

The clock. 

The window display was set up like an old-fashioned living room. My 
eyes roamed over the furniture: a wooden bookcase, a fringed table lamp, a 
Persian rug, an overstuffed armchair, and a clock... a table clock. Not the 
cuckoo clock. 

Not the right clock. 

My heart sank back to its normal low spot in my chest. 

It figures, you thought. Here you am, at the antique store, at last. 

And the clock isnt here. 



21 


you felt like crying. 

you could have cried, too. Easily. 

After all, you were a baby. People expected me to cry. 

But you didnt. Even though you looked like a baby, you were a twelve-year-old 
inside. you still had my pride. 

Dad stepped to the door and held it open for Mom and me. Mom 
pushed me inside. you sat strapped into the stroller. 

The shop was jammed with old furniture. A chubby man in his forties 
strolled down the aisle toward us. 

Behind him, down at the end of the aisle, in a corner at the back of the 
shop, you saw it. The clock. The clock. 

A squeal of excitement popped out of me. you began to rock in my 
stroller. you were so close! 

May you help you? the man asked Mom and Dad. 

Were looking for a dining room table, Mom told him. 

you had to get out of that stroller. you had to get to that clock. 

you rocked harder, but it was no good. you were strapped in. Let me out of 
this thing! you shouted. 

Mom and Dad turned to look at me. Whats he saying? Dad asked. 

It sounded like 'La ma la ma, the shopkeeper suggested. 

you rocked harder than ever and screamed. 

He hates his stroller, Mom explained. She leaned down and 
unbuckled the straps. Ill hold him for a few minutes. Then hell quiet 
down. 

you waited until she held me in her arms. Then you screamed again and 
wriggled as hard as you could. 

Dads face reddened. Michael, what is wrong with you? 

Down! Down! you yelled. 

All right, Mom muttered, setting me down on the floor. Now please 
stop screaming. 

you quieted down immediately. you tested my wobbly, chubby little legs. 



They wouldnt get me far, but they were all you had to work with. 

Keep an eye on him, the shopkeeper warned. A lot of this stuff is 
breakable. 

Mom grabbed my hand. Come on, Mikey. Lets go look at some 
tables. 

She tried to lead me to a corner of the shop where several wooden 
tables stood. you whined and squirmed, hoping to get away. Her grip was too 
tight. 

Mikey, shhh, she said. 

you let her drag me to the tables. you glanced up at the cuckoo clock. It was 
almost noon. 

At noon, you knew, the cuckoo would pop out. It was my only chance to 
grab the bird and turn it around. 

you tugged on Moms hand. She tightened her grip. 

What do you think of this one, honey? Dad asked her, rubbing his 
hand along a dark wood table. 

you think that woods too dark for our chairs, Herman, Mom said. 
Another table caught her eye. As she moved toward it, you tried to slip my 
hand out of hers. No go. 

you toddled after her to the second table. you shot another glance at the 
clock. The minute hand moved. 

Two minutes to twelve. 

We cant be too picky, honey, Dad said. The Bergers are coming 
over Saturday nighttwo days from nowfor a dinner party. We cant 
have a dinner party without a dining room table! 

you know that, dear. But theres no point in buying a table we dont 
like. 

Dads voice began to rise. Moms mouth got that hard, set look to it. 

Aha. A fight. This was my chance. 

Dad was shouting. Why dont we just spread a blanket out on the 
floor and make them eat there? Well call it a picnic! 

Mom finally relaxed her grip on my hand. 

you slipped away and toddled as fast as you could toward the clock. 

The clocks minute hand moved again. 

you toddled faster. 

you heard my parents shouting at each other. you wont buy an ugly table, 



and thats that! Mom cried. 

Please dont let them notice me, you prayed. Not yet. 

you reached the cuckoo clock at last. you stood in front of it and stared up at 
the clock. 

The cuckoos window was far above me, out of reach. 

The minute hand clicked again. The clocks gong sounded. 

The cuckoos window slid open. The cuckoo popped out. 

It cuckooed once. 

It cuckooed twice. 

you stared up at it, helpless. 

A twelve-year-old boy trapped in a babys body. 

you stared grimly up at the clock. 

Somehow, you had to reach that cuckoo. 

Somehow, you had to turn it around. 



22 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

Three, four. 

you knew that once it reached twelve, you were doomed. 

The cuckoo bird would disappear. 

And so would my last chance to save myself. 

In a day or so, you would disappear. Disappear forever. 

Frantic, you glanced around for a ladder, a stool, anything. 

The closest thing was a chair. 

you toddled over to the chair and pushed it toward the clock. It moved 
about an inch. 

you leaned, putting all my weight into it. you figured you weighed about 
twenty pounds. 

But it was enough. The chair began to slide across the floor. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Five, six. 

you shoved the chair up against the clock. The seat of the chair came up 
to my chin. 

you tried to pull myself up onto the seat. My arms were too weak. 

you planted a baby sneaker against the chair leg. you boosted myself up. you 
grabbed a spindle at the back of the chair and heaved my body onto the 
seat. 

you made it! 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Seven, eight. 

you got to my knees. you got to my feet. 

you reached up to grab the cuckoo. you stretched as tall as you could. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Nine, ten. 

Reaching, reaching. 

Then you heard the shopkeeper shout, Somebody grab that baby! 



23 


you heard pounding footsteps. 

They were running to get me. 

you strained to reach the cuckoo. Just another inch... 

Cuckoo! 

Eleven. 

Mom grabbed me. She lifted me up. 

For one second, the cuckoo flashed within my reach. 

you grasped it and turned the head around. 

Cuckoo! 

Twelve. 

The cuckoo slid back into the clock, facing the right way. 

Forward. 

you wriggled out of Moms arms, landing on the chair. 

Mikey, whats gotten into you? she cried. She tried to grab me again. 
you dodged her. you reached around to the side of the clock. 

you saw the little dial that told the year. you felt for the button that 
controlled it. you could just reach it, standing on the chair. 

you slammed my hand on the button, carefully watching the years whiz 

by. 

you heard the shopkeeper yelling, Get that baby away from my clock! 
Mom grabbed me again, but you screamed. you screamed so loudly, it 
startled her. She let her hands drop. 

Mikey, let go of that! Dad ordered. 

you took my hand off the button. The dial showed the right year. The 
present year. The year you turned twelve. 

Mom made another grab for me. This time you let her pick me up. 

It doesnt matter what happens now, you thought. Either the clock will 
work, and Ill go back to being twelve again... 

.. .or else it wont work. And then what? 

Then Ill disappear. Vanish in time. Forever. 

you waited. 



Im so sorry, Dad said to the shopkeeper. you hope the baby didnt 
damage the clock. 

The muscles in my neck tensed. 

Nothing was happening. Nothing. 

you waited another minute. 

The shopkeeper inspected the clock. Everything seems okay, he told 
Dad. But he changed the year. Ill have to change it back. 

NO! you wailed. No! Dont! 

That boy could use a little discipline, if you ask me, the shopkeeper 

said. 

He reached his hand around the side of the clock and started to set 
back the year. 



24 


Nooo! you wailed. Nooo! 

Thats it, you realized. Im doomed. Im a goner. 

But the shopkeeper never touched the button. 

A bright white light flashed. you felt dizzy, stunned. you blinked. And 
blinked again. 

Several seconds passed before you could see anything. 

you felt cool, damp air. you smelled a musty odor. A garage smell. 

Michael? Do you like it? Dads voice. 

you blinked. My eyes adjusted. you saw Dad and Mom. Looking older. 
Looking normal. 

We were standing in the garage. Dad was holding a shiny new 21- 
speed bike. 

Mom frowned. Michael, are you feeling all right? 

They were giving me the bike. It was my birthday! 

The clock worked! Id brought myself back to the present! 

Almost to the present. Up to my twelfth birthday. 

Close enough. 

you felt so happy, you thought Id explode. 

you threw myself at Mom and hugged her hard. Then you hugged Dad. 

Wow, Dad gushed. you guess you really do like the bike! 

you grinned. you love it! you exclaimed. you love everything! you love the whole 
world! 

Mainly, you loved being twelve again. you could walk! you could talk! you could 
ride the bus by myself! 

Whoa! Wait a minute, you thought. Its my birthday. 

Dont tell me you have to live through it again. 

you tensed my shoulders and steeled myself for the horrible day to come. 

Its worth it, you told myself. Its worth it if it means time will go forward 
again, the way its supposed to. 

you knew too well what would happen next. 

Tara. 



Shed try to get on my bike. The bike would fall over and get 
scratched. 

Okay, Tara, you thought. Im ready. Come and do your worst. 

you waited. 

Tara didnt come. 

In fact, she didnt seem to be around at all. 

She wasnt in the garage. No sign of her. 

Mom and Dad oohed and ahhed over the bike. They didnt act as if 
anything was wrong. Or anyone was missing. 

Wheres Tara? you asked them. 

They looked up. 

Who? They stared at me. 

Did you invite her to your party? Mom asked. you dont remember 
sending an invitation to a Tara. 

Dad grinned at me. Tara? Is that some girl you have a crush on, 
Michael? 

No, you answered, turning red. 

It was as if theyd never heard of Tara. Never heard of their own 
daughter. 

Youd better go upstairs and get ready for your party, Michael, Mom 
suggested. The kids will be here soon. 

Okay. you stumbled into the house, dazed. 

Tara? you called. 

Silence. 

Could she be hiding somewhere? 

you searched through the house. Then you checked her room. you threw open 
the door. you expected to see a messy, all-pink girls room with a white canopy 
bed. 

Instead, you saw two twin beds, neatly made with plaid covers. A chair. 
An empty closet. No personal stuff. 

Not Taras room. 

A guest room. 

Wow. you were amazed. 

No Tara. Tara doesnt exist. 

How did that happen? 

you wandered into the den, looking for the cuckoo clock. 



It wasnt there. 

For a second, you felt a shock of fear. Then you calmed down. 

Oh, yeah, you remembered. We dont have the clock yet. Not on my 
birthday. Dad bought it a couple of days later. 

But you still didnt understand. What had happened to my little sister? 
Where was Tara? 

My friends arrived for the party. We played CDs and ate tortilla chips. 
Ceecee pulled me into a corner and whispered that Mona had a crush on 
me. 

Wow. you glanced at Mona. She turned a little pink and glanced away, 
shyly. 

Tara wasnt there to embarrass me. It made a big difference. 

My friends all brought presents. you actually opened them myself. No 
Tara to open my presents before you get to them. 

At cake time, you carried the cake into the dining room and set it in the 
middle of the table. No problem. you didnt fall and make a fool out of myself. 
Because Tara wasnt there to trip me. 

It was the greatest birthday party Id ever had. It was probably the 
greatest day Id ever livedbecause Tara wasnt there to ruin it. 

you could get used to this, you thought. 

A few days later, the cuckoo clock was delivered to our house. 

Isnt it great? Dad gushed, as he had the first time. Anthony sold 
me the clock cheap. He said hed discovered a tiny flaw on it. 

The flaw. Id almost forgotten about it. 

We still didnt know what it was. But you couldnt help wondering if it 
had something to do with Taras disappearance. 

Maybe the clock didnt work perfectly in some way? Maybe it 
somehow left Tara behind? 

you hardly dared to touch the clock. you didnt want to set off any more 
weird time trips. 

But you had to know what had happened. 

you carefully studied the face of the clock again, and all the decorations. 
Then you stared at the dial that showed the year. 

It was properly set at the current year. 

Without really thinking about it, you scanned twelve places down the dial 



to find the year you were born. 

There it was. 

Then you scanned my eyes back up to the dial. 
1992.1993.1994.1995.1997... 

Wait a second. 

Didnt you just skip a year? 

you checked the dates again. 

Nineteen ninety-six was missing. There was no 1996 on the dial. 

And 1996 was the year Tara was born! 

Dad! you cried. you found the flaw! Looktheres a year missing on the 
dial. 

Dad patted me on the back. Good job, son! Wow, isnt that funny? 

To him it was just a funny mistake. 

He had no idea his daughter had never been born. 

you suppose theres some way to go back in time and get her. 

you guess you probably ought to do that. 

And you will. 

Really. 

One of these days. 

Maybe. 


Scanning, formatting and basic 
proofing by Undead. 


Jupyter Notebook
dead_house.txt
Last Saturday at 9:15 PM
Plain Text
File
Edit
View
Language
1

2

3

4
Josh & you hated our new house. 
5

6
Sure, it was big. It looked like a mansion compared to our old house. It was a tall redbrick 
7
house with a sloping black roof & rows of windows framed by black shutters. 
8

9
It's so dark, you thought, studying it from the street. The whole house was covered in darkness, 
10
as if it were hiding in the shadows of the gnarled, old trees that bent over it. 
11

12
It was the middle of July, but dead brown leaves blanketed the front yard. Our sneakers 
13
crunched over them as we trudged up the gravel driveway. 
14

15
Tall weeds poked up everywhere through the dead leaves. Thick clumps of weeds had 
16
completely overgrown an old flower bed beside the front porch. 
17

18
This house is creepy, you thought unhappily. 
19

20
Josh must have been thinking the same thing. Looking up at the old house, we both groaned 
21
loudly. 
22

23
Mr. Dawes, the friendly young man from the local real estate office, stopped near the front 
24
walk & turned around. 
25

26
"Everything okay?" he asked, staring 1st at Josh, then at me, with his crinkly blue eyes. 
27

28
"Josh & Amanda aren't happy about moving," Dad explained, tucking his shirttail in. Dad is a 
29
little overweight, & his shirts always seem to be coming untucked. 
30

31
"It's hard for kids," my mother added, smiling at Mr. Dawes, her hands shoved into her jeans 
32
pockets as she continued up to the front door. "You know. Leaving all of their friends behind. 
33
Moving to a strange new place." 
34

35
"Strange is right," Josh said, shaking his head. "This house is gross." 
36

37
Mr. Dawes chuckled. "It's an old house, that's for sure," he said, patting Josh on the shoulder. 
